ADT Enriches Smart Security Ecosystem with Nest Partnership
Pulse Integration with Nest Learning Thermostat™ to be Powered by Newly Released ADT Pulse® App
The ADT Corporation July 21, 2015 9:03 AM
?
Done
BOCA RATON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The  ADT  Corporation       ( ADT ), a leading provider of security and automation solutions for       homes and businesses, today announced a partnership with Nest Labs to       make it easier for ADT customers to manage their comfort and save       energy. ADT Pulse® customers can now control their Nest Learning       Thermostat™ conveniently from ADT’s updated mobile app for Pulse for a       more seamless smart home experience. In addition, customers in Atlanta,       Chicago, Denver and Miami may be eligible to receive a Nest Thermostat       when they sign up for select Pulse service plans. This is the first such       commercial partnership and integration by a North American home security & automation provider and is expected to roll out nationwide by the end       of the year.
“The integration with Nest is an important milestone for ADT as we       continue to expand our ecosystem,” said ADT Chief Innovation Officer       Arthur Orduña. “Giving our customers the security and monitoring they       need to protect their most important assets, along with the smart home       and automation technologies they desire, is a critical part of the new       ‘Smart Security’ category that we are defining for the North American       market.”
The partnership with Nest is the latest example of ADT’s efforts to       deliver advanced technology and original solutions to its customers,       through product integration and partnerships with innovative companies.       ADT continues to collaborate with other key players within the security       and smart home markets, having recently developed an API (Application       Program Interface) architecture to accelerate the integration of       innovative products with ADT’s Pulse offering.
“ADT is the premier company in the home security space and like Nest,       they care about keeping customers safe and comfortable,” said Ben Bixby,       Head of Energy and Enterprise Programs, Nest. “By working together, we       are making it possible for ADT customers to conveniently manage their       comfort -- and home security – from one app.”
ADT’s New Mobile Experience
ADT also unveiled its new Pulse mobile experience, which is available       starting today for free by downloading ADT’s updated mobile application       through the Apple App Store or Google Play. The new mobile experience is       designed specifically with the modern consumer in mind. It is an       intuitive and contemporary experience that makes managing home       automation and security more effective – especially for on-the-go       lifestyles. In addition, ADT’s changes to the Pulse app help power ADT’s       open API strategy for further integration with best-in-class third-party       solutions, such as Nest, and to equip consumers with a smart and secure       home platform that will evolve to meet their changing needs. Available       for iPhone/iPads with iOS 7.0 and above and Android phones/tablets 4.0       and above, the sleek new interface includes the following new features,       among others:
Integration with Nest: Equips users with the ability to control their         Nest Learning Thermostatdirectly from the new Pulse mobile         app for a cohesive and intuitive experience. Current ADT customers who         already have a Nest Thermostat can also link their device to ADT Pulse         by updating to the new mobile application.
“Always On” Dashboard: Provides current activity within your home and         business, as well as the ability to take control of what is happening         next via automation tools.
Customized Visual Experience: Because the Pulse platform serves both         ADT residential and business customers, the new mobile application         provides a different visual experience based on the needs of each         specific demographic.
Voice Commands: The new app also includes the voice control features         of ADT’s prior mobile application, PulseVoiceTM, enabling a         robust and comprehensive set of voice commands for ease-of-use and         seamless control.
For more information, visit www.adt.com .
About ADT
The ADT Corporation ( ADT ) is a leading provider of security and       automation solutions for homes and businesses in the United States and       Canada. ADT's broad and pioneering set of products and services,       including ADT Pulse® interactive home and business solutions, and health       services, meet a range of customer needs for today’s active and       increasingly mobile lifestyles. Headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida,       ADT helps provide peace of mind to nearly seven million customers, and       it employs approximately 17,500 people at 200 locations. More       information is available at  www.adt.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150721005880/en/
Nest Labs
