Cambium Learning Group Earns Reader's Choice Top 100 Distinction
Cambium Learning Group, Inc. December 19, 2014 11:43 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Dec. 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. [NASDAQ: ABCD], the educational solutions and services company that leverages engaging, innovative technology to help all students reach their full potential, announced today that products innovated by two of its business units—ExploreLearning® and Voyager Sopris Learning™— were selected to be among District Administration magazine's 2014 Reader's Choice Top 100 Products.
View photo
.
This annual, award-winning list of products notifies and educates superintendents and other senior school influencers about the top products being used around the country to help districts excel. The winning products were selected from more than 2,400 unique nominations submitted by the nation's top K–12 leaders and demonstrate the powerful impact of technology and the Internet.
The Cambium Learning Group solutions named as the 2014 Reader's Choice Top 100 Products are:
ExploreLearning
Read Well®
"We are honored that the editorial board at District Administration magazine has selected our solutions to be among the Top 100 products in 2014," said John Campbell, chief executive officer of Cambium Learning Group. "With our commitment to delivering innovative educational solutions that help all students achieve, it's an honor to receive this distinction."
About ExploreLearning
ExploreLearning ® develops online solutions to improve student learning in math and science. ExploreLearning currently has two products: Gizmos®, the world's largest library of interactive, online simulations for math and science in grades 3–12; and Reflex®, the most powerful solution available for math fact fluency development. Gizmos and Reflex bring research-proven instructional strategies to classrooms around the world. ExploreLearning is a Charlottesville, VA-based member of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. (ABCD), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information about Gizmos, please visit  www.explorelearning.com . For more information about Reflex, please visit  www.reflexmath.com .
About Voyager Sopris Learning
Voyager Sopris Learning™ is committed to partnering with school districts to overcome obstacles that students, teachers, and school leaders face every day. The suite of instructional and service solutions we provide is not only research based, but also evidence based—proven to increase student achievement and educator effectiveness. Our solutions have been fully tested in the classroom, ensuring that they are easy to implement and teacher friendly. They are innovative, both in overall instructional approach and in the strategic use of technology in blended and 100 percent online solutions, and they are supported by an unparalleled commitment to build local capacity for sustained success. With a comprehensive suite of instructional resources, we provide assessments, professional development and school-improvement services, literacy and math instructional tools—both comprehensive intervention and supplemental—and resources to build a positive school climate. Voyager Sopris Learning is a member of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: ABCD), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, please visit www.voyagersopris.com .
About Cambium Learning Group, Inc.
Cambium Learning® Group is a leading educational solutions and services company that is committed to helping all students reach their full potential by providing evidence-based solutions and expert professional services to empower educators and raise the achievement levels of all students. The company is composed of four business units: Voyager Sopris Learning™ ( www.voyagersopris.com ), Learning A–Z ( www.learninga-z.com ), ExploreLearning® ( www.explorelearning.com ), and Kurzweil Educational Systems® ( www.kurzweiledu.com ). Together, these business units provide best-in-class intervention and supplemental instructional materials; gold-standard professional development and school-improvement services; breakthrough technology solutions for online learning and professional support; valid and reliable assessments; and proven materials to support a positive and safe school environment. Cambium Learning Group, Inc. (ABCD), is based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, please visit www.cambiumlearning.com .
Media Contact
