Cambium Learning Group Announces September Conference Participation Schedule
Cambium Learning Group, Inc. September 8, 2015 5:00 AM
Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Sept.  08, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Cambium Learning® Group, a leading educational solutions and services company, today announced its participation in three investor conferences taking place in New York in September.  John Campbell, CEO, and Barbara Benson, CFO, will appear at:
BMO Capital Markets 15th Annual Back to School Education Conference
Date:   September 10, 2015
Fireside Chat:  1:30 p.m. and one-on-ones with investors                  
Imperial Capital 2015 Global Opportunities Co­­nference
Date:   September 17, 2015
6th Annual Craig-Hallum Alpha Select Conference
Date:   September 17, 2015
Presentation Time:  2:10 p.m. and one-on-ones with investors           
A webcast link for these sessions and the company’s latest investor presentation will be available in the Investor Relations section of the Cambium Learning Group website: www.cambiumlearning.com .
About Cambium Learning
Cambium Learning® Group is a leading educational solutions and services company committed to helping all students reach their full potential.  Cambium Learning accomplishes this goal by providing evidence-based solutions and expert professional services to empower educators and raise the achievement levels of all students. The company is composed of four business units: Learning A–Z ( www.learninga-z.com ), ExploreLearning® ( www.explorelearning.com ), Kurzweil Education™ ( www.kurzweiledu.com ), and Voyager Sopris Learning™ ( www.voyagersopris.com ). Together, these business units provide breakthrough technology solutions for online learning and professional support; best-in-class intervention and supplemental instructional materials; gold-standard professional development and school-improvement services; valid and reliable assessments; and proven materials to support a positive and safe school environment. Cambium Learning Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), is based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.cambiumlearning.com .
Cambium Learning Group
