Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. Shareholder Alert: Former SEC Attorney Willie Briscoe and Powers Taylor Investigate Possible Breaches of Fiduciary Duty by Officers and Directors
Powers Taylor LLP January 18, 2016 12:39 PM
?
Done
DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Former United States Securities and Exchange Commission attorney Willie       Briscoe , founder of The       Briscoe Law Firm, PLLC , and the securities litigation firm of Powers       Taylor LLP announce that a federal class action lawsuit has been       filed against Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (“Chipotle”) ( CMG ) and       several officers and directors for acts taken during the period of       February 4, 2015 to January 5, 2016 (the “Class Period”).
Based upon the allegations in the class action, the firms are       investigating additional legal claims against the officers and Board of       Directors of Chipotle. If you are an affected Chipotle shareholder and       want to learn more about the lawsuit or join the action, contact Willie       Briscoe at The Briscoe Law Firm, PLLC via email at shareholders@thebriscoelawfirm.com ,       Patrick Powers at Powers Taylor LLP via email at shareholder@powerstaylor.com ,       or call toll free at (877) 728-9607. There is no cost or fee to you.
According to the complaint, the defendants are alleged to have violated       certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Specifically,       the complaint alleges, among other things, that defendants issued       materially false and misleading statements regarding its business,       operational and compliance policies. Specifically, defendants made false       and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) its       quality controls were not in compliance with applicable consumer and       workplace safety regulations; (ii) its quality controls were inadequate       to safeguard consumer and employee health; and (iii) as a result of the       foregoing, its public statements were materially false and misleading at       all relevant times.
On January 6, 2016, Chipotle announced that it was served in December       2015 with a federal subpoena, requiring the Company to produce extensive       documents following the August 2014’s criminal investigation of the       dangerous norovirus outbreak in Simi Valley, California. Chipotle       disclosed that the investigation is being conducted by the U.S.       Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California in conjunction       with the Food and Drug Administration’s Office of Criminal       Investigations. Chipotle stock dropped significantly immediately       following this announcement.
The       Briscoe Law Firm, PLLC is a full service business litigation,       commercial transaction, and public advocacy firm with more than 20 years       of experience in complex litigation and transactional matters.
Powers       Taylor LLP is a boutique litigation law firm that handles a variety       of complex business litigation matters, including claims of investor and       stockholder fraud, shareholder oppression, shareholder derivative suits,       and security class actions.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160118005667/en/
Company Legal & Law Matters
