Digital Promise Selects Cambium Learning Group as Corporate Partner
Cambium Learning Group to Contribute Thought Leadership and Problem Solving
Cambium Learning Group, Inc. October 14, 2015 11:00 AM
Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Oct.  14, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Digital Promise, a national, independent nonprofit organization authorized by Congress to accelerate innovation in education, announced Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. ( ABCD ) as a corporate partner.
Digital Promise works with education leaders, researchers, and leading technology developers to harness the increasing capacity of advanced information and digital technologies to improve all levels of learning and education. Digital Promise’s Corporate Partner Program aims to create mutually beneficial relationships among its corporate partners, staff, and network. Cambium Learning will engage as thought leaders, codesigners, and problem solvers alongside other education leaders and researchers to help provide learning opportunities for Americans of all ages.
“Our partnership with Digital Promise offers new opportunities to work with leaders in the education space to promote innovation and growth in education,” said John Campbell, CEO of Cambium Learning Group. “Membership supports our goal to help all students reach their full potential. It also speaks to our commitment of leveraging proven technology to foster learning.”
As a leader and innovator in driving student success, Cambium Learning helps strengthen the Digital Promise Corporate Partner Program even further. Corporate partner members will share lessons learned, participate in national forums, and partner with other technology developers to deliver better results for educators and students.
“We value our relationships with corporate partners and engage them to achieve our goal of improved education for all Americans through technology and research,” said Karen Cator, President and CEO of Digital Promise. “Our Corporate Partner Program is the principal way in which we interact with and learn from the developer community. We appreciate the perspective and experience from industry leaders on key challenges in education and the education technology market, and often draw on these relationships when seeking thoughtful participation from the corporate sector at meetings, panels, and other gatherings.”
About Cambium Learning Group, Inc.
Cambium Learning® Group is a leading educational solutions and services company committed to helping all students reach their full potential. Cambium Learning accomplishes this goal by providing evidence-based solutions and expert professional services to empower educators and raise the achievement levels of all students. The company is composed of four business units: Learning A-Z™ ( www.learninga-z.com ), ExploreLearning® ( www.explorelearning.com ), Kurzweil Education™ ( www.kurzweiledu.com ), and Voyager Sopris Learning™ ( www.voyagersopris.com ). Together, these business units provide breakthrough technology solutions for online learning and professional support; best-in-class intervention and supplemental instructional materials; gold-standard professional development and school-improvement services; valid and reliable assessments; and proven materials to support a positive and safe school environment. Cambium Learning Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), is based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, please visit www.cambiumlearning.com .
About Digital Promise
Digital Promise is a nonprofit organization authorized by Congress to spur innovation in education in order to improve the opportunity to learn for all Americans. Through its work with educators, entrepreneurs, researchers, and leading thinkers, Digital Promise supports a comprehensive agenda to benefit lifelong learning and provide Americans with the knowledge and skills needed to compete in the global economy.
 
