Content preferences
Done
TUCSON, Ariz., Aug.  19, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Learning A-Z™, an online provider of PreK–6 education solutions and a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc., announces the opening of the annual Virtual Teacher Store that offers worldwide back-to-school discounts on its award-winning learning products.
The Virtual Teacher Store, an online storefront that provides educators and parents access to additional savings on subscriptions to any Learning A-Z product, is open through August 31.
“The start of the school year is always a busy and expensive time for educators,” said Bob Holl, president and cofounder of Learning A-Z. “We know budgets are always stretched this time of year in classrooms and homes, and want to do our part to ensure every student receives the effective, personalized instruction they deserve. As the school year begins in different parts of the country and across many parts of the globe, we’re proud to offer these special back-to-school savings to help teachers get the resources and tools they need for less.”
While the Virtual Teacher Store is open, individuals can save between $10 and $30 on a one-year subscription to any or all of Learning A-Z's digitally delivered products: Reading A-Z , Raz-Kids , Headsprout®, Science A-Z , Writing A-Z , Vocabulary A-Z , and ReadyTest A-Z . Recent enhancements include the new Kids A-Z student environment and teacher management hub that streamlines online learning for teachers and students. For more information about Learning A-Z's Virtual Teacher Store, visit www.learninga-z.com/special/back-to-school-savings-2015.html .  
About Learning A-Z
Learning A-Z is a leading provider of PreK-6 literacy-focused curriculum resources. Founded in 2002, Learning A-Z believes that comprehensive literacy is the foundation to all learning. With a robust library of incredibly effective and flexible curriculum resources, Learning A-Z provides the tools teachers need to deliver personalized instruction for a wide range of student needs, including ELL/ESL, intervention, special education, and daily instruction. Learning A-Z’s award-winning line of products includes: Reading A-Z , Raz-Kids , Headsprout, Science A-Z , Writing A-Z , Vocabulary A-Z , and ReadyTest A-Z . Learning A-Z is a business unit of Cambium Learning Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.learninga-z.com .
Contact:
