Content preferences
Done
TUCSON, Ariz., Aug.  11, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Learning A-Z™, an online provider of PreK–6 education solutions and a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc., is pleased to announce the launch of its new student learning environment and teacher management hub, Kids A-Z.
Kids A-Z is a new online portal and mobile application available to all Learning A-Z customers who subscribe to a product that contains online learning materials for students. The portal’s kid-friendly learning environment has been optimized to enhance students’ learning experience and make it easy to access student eResources across multiple Learning A-Z websites. In addition, the online portal contains all the classroom management tools and reporting features teachers use to monitor individual and class-wide learning progress.
“The recent launch of Kids A-Z is the next step in our product evolution, making our student-facing resources even better and easier to use,” said Bob Holl, president and cofounder of Learning A-Z. “Through this new portal, teachers can now manage all of their online student work and view reports from one place, saving even more time. In addition, the engaging environment will further motivate students to log in and improve their reading and writing skills each and every day.”
Access to Kids A-Z comes free with any subscription to Raz-Kids, Headsprout®, Writing A-Z, and ReadyTest A-Z. The Kids A-Z mobile application currently provides access to all Raz-Kids digital reading content. Access to additional Learning A-Z online learning resources are currently in development. To learn more, visit www.kidsa-z.com .
About Learning A-Z
Learning A-Z is a leading provider of PreK-6 literacy-focused curriculum resources. Founded in 2002, Learning A-Z believes that comprehensive literacy is the foundation to all learning. With a robust library of incredibly effective and flexible curriculum resources, Learning A-Z provides the tools teachers need to deliver personalized instruction for a wide range of student needs, including ELL/ESL, intervention, special education, and daily instruction. Learning A-Z’s award-winning line of products includes: Reading A-Z , Raz-Kids , Headsprout, Science A-Z , Writing A-Z , Vocabulary A-Z , and ReadyTest A-Z . Learning A-Z is a business unit of Cambium Learning Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information about the company, please visit www.learninga-z.com .
Contact:
