The ADT Corporation Announces Quarterly Dividend; Approves New $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program
The ADT Corporation July 20, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
BOCA RATON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Board of Directors of The ADT Corporation ( ADT ), a leading       provider of security and automation solutions for homes and businesses,       declared on July 17, 2015, a quarterly cash dividend of $0.21 per share       of common stock. The dividend will be paid on August 19, 2015, to       stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 29, 2015.
The Company’s Board of Directors has also approved a new share       repurchase program authorizing the Company to purchase up to $1 billion       of its common stock which is incremental to the remaining $192 million       remaining in the current share repurchase program expiring on November       26, 2015. The new share repurchase program expires on July 17, 2018, and       may be terminated at any time.
“This new share repurchase program, together with our robust dividend,       reflects our Board’s continued confidence in our long-term strategy,       substantial operating cash flow generation, and future performance,”       said ADT President and Chief Executive Officer Naren Gursahaney. “We       also remain committed to maintaining a strong financial position that       provides us with the flexibility to make strategic acquisitions and       invest in other growth opportunities when appropriate.”
About ADT
The ADT Corporation ( ADT ) is a leading provider of security and       automation solutions for homes and businesses in the United States and       Canada. ADT's broad and pioneering set of products and services,       including ADT Pulse® interactive home and business solutions, and health       services, meet a range of customer needs for today’s active and       increasingly mobile lifestyles. Headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida,       ADT helps provide peace of mind to nearly seven million customers, and       it employs approximately 17,500 people at 200 locations. More       information is available at www.adt.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150720005661/en/
The ADT Corporation
