Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Oct.  13, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Voyager Sopris Learning™, provider of evidence-based preK–12 instructional solutions and professional services, today announced a structured agreement with Enlearn™, an innovative nonprofit education technology startup. The newly defined partnership pairs one of the world’s leading providers of instructional solutions and services for educators with the developer of the latest data-driven technology for accelerating student learning and enhancing teacher effectiveness.
The agreement represents the first commercial partnership for Enlearn, as well as a significant affirmation of the Voyager Sopris mission to use the very best research-based approaches and innovations to help every student reach his or her full potential.
“We have been working extensively with Enlearn for quite some time. Now, with the confirmation of our partnership, both companies have committed to building the next generation of adaptive classroom solutions,” said Jeffrey A. Elliott, president of Voyager Sopris. “Enlearn’s technology is truly groundbreaking—we are pleased to bring this monumental approach to classrooms across the nation.”
The Enlearn Platform™ is powered by proprietary technology that adapts in real time within each problem, based on data pulled from all student responses and classroom variables. This allows the platform to generate a virtually infinite number of instructional approaches for each skill and to create specific, personalized learning paths for each individual student, teacher, and classroom. The company’s partnership with Voyager Sopris will enable those capabilities to be made available to teachers everywhere following integration into new instructional solutions for both literacy and math. These new solutions are currently in development and expected to be announced in the first quarter of 2016.
“Educational technology will never replace great teaching, but it can markedly enhance it, particularly for struggling students—those who need it most,” said John Mullin, CEO of Enlearn. “By combining our technology with Voyager Sopris Learning’s renowned expertise in curriculum development, we’re confident that this partnership will yield some of the most highly effective learning solutions ever developed.”
“Voyager Sopris Learning was the first company that was ready to rebuild their content from the ground up and codevelop with our team to maximize the optimization of the teaching and learning experience,” said Zoran Popovic, founder and chief scientist of Enlearn. “This makes Voyager Sopris the ideal partner for us, and we could not be more excited to be working with them.”
About Voyager Sopris Learning
Voyager Sopris Learning™ is committed to partnering with school districts to meet and surpass their goals for student achievement. The suite of instructional and service solutions we provide is not only research based, but also evidence based—proven to increase student achievement and educator effectiveness. Our solutions have been fully tested in the classroom, ensuring that they are easy to implement and teacher friendly. They are innovative, both in overall instructional approach and in the strategic use of technology in blended and 100 percent online solutions, and they are supported by an unparalleled commitment to build local capacity for sustained success. With a comprehensive suite of instructional resources, we provide assessments, professional development and school improvement services, literacy and math instructional tools—both comprehensive intervention and supplemental—and resources to build a positive school climate. Voyager Sopris Learning is a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.voyagersopris.com .
About Enlearn
Enlearn™ is a K–12 nonprofit company founded by Zoran Popovic at the University of Washington’s Center for Game Science (CGS) to support data-driven optimization of the learning ecosystem, including optimization of student learning, teacher effectiveness, and courseware efficacy. Enlearn introduced its software platform after five years of cutting-edge research by Popovic and his team at CGS. The Enlearn Platform™ identifies and adapts the best learning pathways for each student, and includes not just student-specific content but also incentives for engagement and persistence, teaching interventions, student groupings, homework, and more. With each use, the Platform itself learns, improving the paths to mastery for the next user. For more information, visit www.enlearn.org .
Zoran Popovic
