Voyager Sopris Learning's Donation to The Kids In Need Foundation Benefits Students Affected by Texas Floods
Cambium Learning Group, Inc. August 24, 2015 11:35 AM
Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Aug.  24, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Voyager Sopris Learning™, provider of a comprehensive suite of evidence-based preK–12 interventions, assessments, and professional services, announced today that a portion of its 2014 donation to The Kids In Need Foundation (KINF) was used to provide backpacks filled with school supplies to students affected by the severe floods earlier this year in Houston, TX.
Voyager Sopris Learning’s collaboration with KINF has produced nearly $40,000 in cash donations over the last two years during its Back to School campaigns. A portion of the 2014 donation to the Kids In Need Second Responder Program® was used to procure, assemble, and provide more than 860 backpacks filled with school supplies to every student at Parker Elementary in Houston, Texas—a school deeply affected by the devastating floods.
On August 18, 2015, the backpacks were distributed during an event held at Parker Elementary School, where representatives from Voyager Sopris Learning were on site to assist with the event and overall relief efforts.
“Voyager Sopris Learning has always been community-minded, and it is through our collaboration with The Kids In Need Foundation that we are able to swiftly provide assistance to those students who have experienced loss,” said Jeffrey A. Elliott, president of Voyager Sopris Learning. “We are fortunate to be aligned with this worthy organization, and we feel good knowing that we can change lives by helping to provide students in need with the tools that they need to succeed.”
Voyager Sopris Learning looks forward to a continued relationship with KINF to help ensure that all students have the basic tools they need to participate fully in the learning experiences their schools have to offer.
To learn more about Kids In Need, please visit www.kinf.org or call 937.296.1230.
About The Kids In Need Foundation 
The Kids In Need Foundation is a national 501(c)(3) charitable organization founded in 1995. The Foundation’s mission is to ensure that every child is prepared to learn and succeed by providing free school supplies nationally to students most in need. Its National Network of Resource Centers includes 34 facilities where teachers from low-income schools go to obtain free school supplies for their students. School supply giveaways in communities not served by Resource Centers are accommodated through the School Ready Supplies program, and students who have gone through natural disasters are helped to get back to their normal routines with new backpacks and supplies through the Second Responder® program. In addition, two Teacher Grant programs award preK–12 educators with funding to provide innovative learning experiences for students. KINF has distributed more than $668 million in school supplies since its founding, directly benefiting 4.2 million students and more than 120,000 teachers annually, and has awarded $1.6 million in grants to teachers. Kids In Need has earned the Gold GuideStar Exchange Seal, demonstrating its commitment to transparency, and has been given a 4-star rating from Charity Navigator, indicating that it operates in a fiscally responsible way and outperforms most other charities in America. For more information, visit www.kinf.org . Join Kids In Need Foundation on Twitter at twitter.com/kidsinneed and Facebook at facebook.com/kidsinneed .
About Voyager Sopris Learning 
Voyager Sopris Learning™ is committed to partnering with school districts to overcome obstacles that students, teachers, and school leaders face every day. The suite of instructional and service solutions we provide is not only research based, but also evidence based—proven to increase student achievement and educator effectiveness. Our solutions have been fully tested in the classroom, ensuring that they are easy to implement and teacher friendly. They are innovative, both in overall instructional approach and in the strategic use of technology in blended and 100 percent online solutions, and they are supported by an unparalleled commitment to build local capacity for sustained success. With a comprehensive suite of instructional resources, we provide assessments, professional development and school-improvement services, literacy and math instructional tools—both comprehensive intervention and supplemental—and resources to build a positive school climate. Voyager Sopris Learning is a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc.( ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, please visit www.voyagersopris.com . 
Professional Services
