Voyager Sopris Learning Continues Initiative to Provide School Supplies to Kids In Need
Cambium Learning Group, Inc. August 20, 2015 5:00 AM
Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Aug.  20, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Voyager Sopris Learning™, provider of evidence-based preK–12 instructional solutions and professional services, is pleased to announce it will continue its collaboration with The  Kids In Need Foundation  (KINF) for a third year to raise money for students in need of school supplies. From August 17—October 17, 2015, Voyager Sopris Learning will donate 3 percent of online sales that use the promo code KINF to the Foundation.
“We are committed to giving back in the communities where we do business,” says Jeffrey A. Elliott, president of Voyager Sopris Learning. “Getting school supplies to students is an essential first step toward realizing our larger mission of working with educators to help them meet and surpass their goals for student achievement.”
The mission of Kids In Need is to ensure every child is prepared to learn and succeed by providing free school supplies nationally to students most in need. Through its collaboration with Kids In Need, Voyager Sopris Learning has proudly raised nearly $40,000 for school supplies, earmarked to support the ongoing success and expansion of the Foundation’s programs.
“Voyager Sopris Learning understands that not all children go to school with a backpack filled with supplies, and it is hard to learn without the proper tools," said Dave Smith, executive director, The Kids In Need Foundation. "We are so pleased that once again Voyager Sopris Learning is stepping up to provide supplies so that more students can have confidence in the classroom this year. We know that with these supplies, students' classroom behavior improves and grades go up, because kids feel they have a better chance of achieving in the classroom.”
Kids In Need has distributed more than $700 million in school supplies since its founding, directly benefiting 4.2 million students and more than 120,000 teachers annually. ?KINF is a national 501(c)(3) charitable organization founded in 1995.
For more information about this partnership and how to help by using the KINF promo code, visit www.voyagersopris.com/back-to-school
About Voyager Sopris Learning
Voyager Sopris Learning™ is committed to partnering with school districts to overcome obstacles that students, teachers, and school leaders face every day. The suite of instructional and service solutions we provide is not only research based, but also evidence based—proven to increase student achievement and educator effectiveness. Our solutions have been fully tested in the classroom, ensuring that they are easy to implement and teacher friendly. They are innovative, both in overall instructional approach and in the strategic use of technology in blended and 100 percent online solutions, and they are supported by an unparalleled commitment to build local capacity for sustained success. With a comprehensive suite of instructional resources, we provide assessments, professional development and school-improvement services, literacy and math instructional tools—both comprehensive intervention and supplemental—and resources to build a positive school climate. Voyager Sopris Learning is a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.voyagersopris.com .
Professional Services
