Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Sept.  10, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Voyager Sopris Learning™, provider of evidence-based preK–12 instructional solutions and professional services, is pleased to announce the release of the fourth edition of Step Up to Writing®, grades K–2, completing the entire K-12 writing curriculum. Available for purchase now, the new grade band provides age-appropriate strategies that are scaffolded and differentiated for the emergent writer.
Built specifically for learners in grades K-2, the new grade band provides writing instruction that supports students and teachers with:
Differentiated instruction for emergent, grade-level, and advanced writers
Engaging characters (the “All-Write Club”) that help young learners grasp the Traits of Effective Writing
Integrated oral and written practice—recognizing the reciprocal relationship of oral and written language development
Introduction to the three major text types—informative/explanatory, opinion, and narrative
Age-appropriate exemplar text meant to be read aloud
Implementation options for both half- and full-day kindergarten
Step-by-step instruction on how to locate information and write research reports
Instruction in the use of technology for research, collaboration, and publishing
Strategies to measure growth and prepare students for performance task assessments in later grades
“Finally, a long-needed comprehensive and developmentally appropriate program to assess and teach writing in the early elementary grades. Step Up to Writing strategies guide instruction to create inspired writers, resulting in powerful learning outcomes,” said Lucy Hart Paulson, an expert advisor in the creation of Step Up to Writing, grades K-2. 
With the release of the grade band for grades K-2, Step Up to Writing fourth edition is now a comprehensive, K-12 writing solution that responds to the increase in writing expectation nationwide. Designed for all learners, every level of Step Up provides flexible, evidence-based strategies for improving writing skills; the “how” behind each stage of the writing process; grade-level implementation plans/unit maps; a focus on key text types; instruction for writing in the content areas; and multimedia professional support.
“Establishing a common language for talking about, teaching, and assessing writing is a major component of supporting students in achieving significant and sustainable writing growth,” said Jeffrey A. Elliott, president of Voyager Sopris Learning. “We are pleased to release Step Up to Writing for grades K-2, which will ensure schools have a complete K-12 continuum of writing instruction.”
To learn about the new edition of Step Up to Writing from author Maureen Auman, visit www.voyagersopris.com/stepuptowriting .
About Voyager Sopris Learning
Voyager Sopris Learning™ is committed to partnering with school districts to overcome obstacles that students, teachers, and school leaders face every day. The suite of instructional and service solutions we provide is not only research based, but also evidence based—proven to increase student achievement and educator effectiveness. Our solutions have been fully tested in the classroom, ensuring that they are easy to implement and teacher friendly. They are innovative, both in overall instructional approach and in the strategic use of technology in blended and 100 percent online solutions, and they are supported by an unparalleled commitment to build local capacity for sustained success. With a comprehensive suite of instructional resources, we provide assessments, professional development and school-improvement services, literacy and math instructional tools—both comprehensive intervention and supplemental—and resources to build a positive school climate. Voyager Sopris Learning is a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.voyagersopris.com .
Professional Services
