Dajin Resources, Early Entrance in Nevada's Lithium Land Rush
equities.com October 15, 2015 9:40 AM
?
Done
By  Peter Epstein
LOS ANGELES ,  Oct. 15, 2015  /CNW/ - Nevada is a well-known gold & silver mining state. Gold mined in  Nevada  alone represents 80% of  the United States'  total output, and  Nevada's  storied history in silver led to it being called the "Silver State."  Nevada  is not only the single best mining jurisdiction the U.S, it's  ranked #3 globally  by the respected, "Fraser Institute's annual Survey of Mining Countries." In addition to gold & silver,  Nevada  is making headlines as a center for emerging lithium exploration companies.  Elon Musk's  Tesla Motors ( TSLA ) chose  Nevada  for its first giga-factory for good reason. Will  Nevada  become the, "Lithium State?" It's difficult to know for sure, but it calms me in a mood-stabilizing kind of way to think of it.
Dajin Resources Corp (TSX-V: DJI) (OTC: DJIFF) (Frankfurt: A1XF20) is the 100% owner of 2 prospective properties in  Nevada . Roughly 7,000 acres are split between  Alkali Lake  and  Teels Marsh , both in the sweet spot of the what's known as the "Lithium Hub."  Alkali Lake  is 12 km from Albemarle's Rockwood Lithium's operations, home to  North America's  only brine lithium-producing mine in  North America , in operation for 50 years. Teels Marsh, the more advanced of the two, completed a gravity survey, resulting in 3D interpretation images of a deep, closed basin, plus fluid and sediment samples to be analyzed in preparation for deep drilling. At  Alkali Lake , Dajin is reviewing its gravity survey & 3D gravity / airborne magnetic basin modeling data.
Dajin's Alkali Lake Property Location
Central western Nevada is the location of a lithium land rush, closer to the beginning than the end. Public and private companies are staking ground and making acquisitions, while existing and new entrants look at a multitude of alternatives to articulate a meaningful position in the Lithium Hub. Importantly for lithium junior Dajin Resources, exploration is well underway on its  Nevada  properties, giving it a valuable early entrance.
Early entrance is critical not just in land grabs but for takeout potential, off-take agreements, and myriad other de-risking corporate initiatives. Permitting and a number of time consuming, capital eating, early-stage logistics need to be carried out before actual exploration and testing can commence. This puts Dajin Resources years ahead of later entrance players.
Time is money, and very early stage and grass roots capital is hard to come by, highly dilutive to say the least.
Why all the excitement, causing a central western  Nevada  land rush?
Consider this, the "smart money" is entering the lithium land rush. Royce Resources recently signed a LOI to acquire prospective property from a privately-held firm. The CEO Brian Paes-Braga and his partner, legendary business mogul  Frank Giustra , are the financier of countless natural resources deals. Royce is acquiring an option to earn a 100% interest in an area covering 629 hectares, (1,554 acres). It's doubtful that expert mining investor Giustra is late to the  Nevada  lithium party.
Lithium fundamentals are a highly important underlying catalyst, which is always a good thing! Readers should understand that lithium is found in abundance the world over, but economically viable deposits are far and few between. If I had written this article a month or two ago, it would already be out of date. Two new players have stepped up in the State and third-party analysts and consultants are updating demand metrics, which are only headed in one direction. I mentioned in prior articles that lithium demand to satisfy Electric Vehicles, "EVs," (aka Battery Electric Vehicles, "BEV"), and giant grid-scale utility users (among other large, lithium ion based storage systems) could double every 3 years, a CAGR of about 25%.
Dajin Lithium Price Drivers
Recently, there has been headline-grabbing reports and commentary about lithium demand. A market forecast published by analysts at industry consultant Navigant estimates the lithium market could reach nearly  $16 billion  a year by 2024, up from  $675 million  in 2014. That's an 11-year CAGR of roughly 33% for all lithium uses, not just EVs and grid-scale battery storage. TechNavio's analysts forecast the Global BEV market to grow at a CAGR of 59.42% over the period 2014-2019. Rest assured, I don't accept these optimistic research reports at face value, I simply refer to them to demonstrate that lithium demand CAGR estimates continue to move higher across the board. These figures make my annual 25% EV / Grid-scale CAGR look more reasonable.
Not only a land rush, but angry  Nevada  lawmakers call Tesla Motors out
After offering Tesla more than  $1.3 billion  in tax incentives to construct its giga-factory near  Reno , lawmakers expressed frustration that Tesla signed a lithium deal with Bacanora Minerals and JV partner Rare Earth Minerals in northern Mexico. "Like everyone, I was thinking we were going to use  Nevada  products if we could," said Republican Sen.  Pete Goicoechea  of  Eureka . "I think everyone's a little bit concerned. We gave Tesla this big tax break and now they are sourcing raw materials from outside of the country." 
There are a number of  Nevada  lithium companies, one producing and others in various stages of preparation, that Tesla could have tapped. "It was my understanding that  Nevada's  Western Lithium would be able to ramp up in a like timeframe to meet Tesla's needs," said a  Nevada  law maker. In response to that story, Tesla's CEO  Elon Musk  was forced to back peddle, "... this lithium deal is not exclusive (and) has many contingencies. The press on this matter is unwarranted."
It's important to note, Tesla purchased 1,200 acres next to the current giga-factory, according to  Dean Haymore  of the  Storey County  Commission. According to Haymore, the giga-factory was supposed to consist of four modular, "blocks," but Tesla is now planning to build seven. Haymore said that the enlargement would bring the Giga-factory's total size up to 24 million square feet. If true, Tesla's giga-factory #1 would become by far the world's largest building.
Lithium prices increases support strong demand today, not in 2-3 years when giga-factory #1 is ramped up
The FMC Corporation recently announced  Lithium Price Increases :
"FMC Corporation announced that effective  October 1, 2015 , it will increase prices for its lithium products in all global regions. All products including lithium carbonate, lithium chloride, lithium hydroxide will increase by 15%. The increases apply to all standard and non-standard pricing. 'Continued market growth is outpacing current industry supply capabilities for most of our product lines,' said  Chris Senyk , global marketing director, FMC Lithium. 'Price increases are necessary to re-invest in our global manufacturing facilities and continue reliable supply of high-quality lithium products.'"
"At FMC, we believe demand for lithium will grow more than 10% yearly throughout the next decade."
Evidence of increasing estimates of annual demand include a comment directly from FMC's web page. According to FMC forecasts, greater than 10% annual growth for a decade is expected. If it were to be 12%, that would equate to a tripling in demand in the next 10 years.
Dajin Resources a balance of market cap, first mover's advantage, acreage, (nearly 7,000 acres), squarely in the fairway
There are a number of lithium-related fundamentals I will save for another article. As mentioned, private companies are busy staking ground as well. As far as land rushes go, this one appears to be closer to the beginning than the end. Dajin Resources is beyond the land grab stage, although it continues to search for attractive ground to stake, joint ventures, and outright acquisitions of assets. With no debt, solid financial backing, and as much as 2-3 years head start on other green field players, first mover's advantage belongs to Dajin.
The Company has a strong Management Board and Technical Advisory Board, absolutely critical in a fast moving market environment. These are not money guys from  Vancouver  or  London ; they're true experts, highly valuable assets to the Company. It's fair to assume that Dajin owns some of the best property in  Nevada , that's what first mover's advantage is all about. Dajin Resources is methodically and prudently advancing its  Nevada  properties, but they're also moving fairly rapidly in some respects due to the company NOT being constrained on the capital front.
Dajin Facts:
S&P Market Access Profile:  http://reports.standardandpoors.com/aidata/maccess/pdf/23406720.pdf  
Links to infographics explaining lithium:  http://dajin.ca/infographics/
Disclosure: In the purview of Section 17(B) of the Securities Act of 1933 and in the interest of full disclosure, we call the reader's attention the fact that Equities.com, Inc. may be compensated by the companies profiled in the Spotlight Companies section. The purpose of these profiles is to provide awareness of these companies to investors in the micro, small-cap and growth equity community and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy, sell or hold these securities. Equities.com is not a registered broker, broker dealer, investment advisor, analyst, investment banker or underwriter. All profiles are based on information that is available to the public. The information contained herein should not be considered to be all-inclusive and is not guaranteed by Equities.com to be free from misstatement or errors. Readers are reminded to do their own due diligence when researching any companies mentioned on this website.
Disclosure: Dajin Resources has a small market cap. Stocks with small market caps are highly speculative, not suitable for all investors. I,  Peter Epstein , own shares of DJI.V. Mr. Epstein is not a licensed financial advisor. Readers should take that fact into careful consideration before buying or selling any stock mentioned. Readers are encouraged to consult with their own investment advisors before buying or selling any stock, especially speculative ones. At the time that this article was posted, Dajin Resources was a sponsor of:  http://EpsteinResearch.com . Please consider visiting:   http://EpsteinResearch.com  for free updates on Dajin Resources and others across a range of industry sectors. While at  http://EpsteinResearch.com , please enter an email for instant delivery of my work.  Thank you for supporting my articles & interviews.
SOURCE  equities.com
