NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / January 20, 2016 / Park Lane Advisor has initiated coverage on the following equities: Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F), General Motors Company (GM), Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (FCAU), and Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA). Free research report on Ford Motor can be accessed at http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ On Tuesday, January 19, 2016, the NASDAQ Composite ended at 4,476.95, down 0.26%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average edged 0.17% higher, to finish the day at 16,016.02, and the S&P 500 closed at 1,881.33, up 0.05%. The losses were broad based as five out of nine sectors ended the session in negative. Register for your complimentary reports at the links given below. On Tuesday, shares in Ford Motor Co. ended the session 0.17% lower at $11.95. The stock reported a trading volume of 41.07 million shares, above its three months average volume of 31.02 million shares. Shares of the company traded at a PE ratio of 10.04. Ford Motor Co.'s shares have declined 16.78% in the last one month, 21.00% in the previous three months and 17.21% in the last one year. The company is trading 14.21% below its 50-day moving average and 17.40% below its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Ford Motor Co. have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 25.04. Sign up and read the free notes on F at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ General Motors Co.'s stock edged 0.57% lower, to close the day at $29.40. The stock recorded a trading volume of 17.63 million shares, above its three months average volume of 13.23 million shares. General Motors Co.'s shares have declined 16.33% in the last one month and 10.38% in the previous three months. Furthermore, the stock has lost 9.04% in the past one year. The company's shares are trading 10.61% below their 200-day moving average. Additionally, General Motors Co. traded at a PE ratio of 10.77 and has an RSI of 25.70. The complimentary notes on GM can be downloaded in PDF format at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ On Tuesday, shares in Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. recorded a trading volume of 8.03 million shares, higher than their three months average volume of 6.24 million shares. The stock ended the day 3.00% lower at $7.12. Shares of the company traded at a PE ratio of 17.37. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V.'s stock has plummeted 47.26% in the last one month, 56.37% in the previous three months and 39.71% in the last one year. The company is trading below its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 44.34% and 51.21%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. have an RSI of 14.55. Register for free on Park Lane Advisor and access the latest research on FCAU at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ Tesla Motors Inc.'s stock finished Tuesday's session 0.13% lower at $204.72. A total of 4.03 million shares were traded, which was above its three months average volume of 3.66 million shares. Over the last one month and the previous three months, Tesla Motors Inc.'s shares have lost 12.70% and 9.82%, respectively. However, the stock has advanced 6.03% in the past one year. The company's shares are trading below their 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 8.45% and 13.90%, respectively. Tesla Motors Inc.'s stock has an RSI of 37.40. The complete research on TSLA is available for free at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ About Park Lane Advisor: Park Lane Advisor ("PLA") produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. PLA has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below. PLA has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document. PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES: The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer"). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer and the Sponsor have not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author, the Reviewer, or the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the "Production Team") in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. NO WARRANTY PLA, the Author, the Reviewer and the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the "Publishers") are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. NOT AN OFFERING This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither PLA nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit www.ParkLaneAdvisor.com RESTRICTIONS PLA is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia. CONTACT For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at: E-mail: media (at) ParkLaneAdvisor (dot) com SOURCE: Park Lane Advisor