NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / March 29, 2016 / The performance of the Major Auto Manufacturers industry over the past year has been steady despite a few bumps along the way, making stocks in this space worthy of attention. Today’s pre-market research at ValuableInvestment.com focuses on four companies within this space: Ford Motor Co. (NYSE:F), General Motors Co. (GM), Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (FCAU), and Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA). Visit us today and access the trade alerts on these stocks at: http://valuableinvestment.com/daily-trade-alerts Ford Motor Co.’s stock climbed 0.23% and finished Monday’s trading session at $13.09. A total volume of 18.65 million shares was traded. In the last one month, the stock has advanced 5.65%. The Company’s shares are trading above their 50-day moving average by 5.72%. Moreover, shares of Ford traded at a PE ratio of 7.11 and have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 51.22. Sign up and get the alert on F at: http://valuableinvestment.com/F On Monday, shares in General Motors Co. recorded a trading volume of 6.09 million shares, and ended the session 0.19% higher at $31.02. The stock has gained 6.47% in the last one month. The Company’s shares are trading 4.85% above their 50-day moving average. Furthermore, shares of General Motors traded at a PE ratio of 5.17 and have an RSI of 54.11. The complimentary alert on GM can be activated at: http://valuableinvestment.com/GM Shares in Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. closed the day at $7.66, up 0.52%. The stock recorded a trading volume of 2.62 million shares. The Company’s shares have surged 19.69% in the last one month, and are trading 8.23% above their 50-day moving average. Additionally, Fiat Chrysler’s stock has an RSI of 53.10. Register for free on ValuableInvestment.com and access the latest strategies on FCAU at: http://valuableinvestment.com/FCAU At the closing bell yesterday, shares in Tesla Motors Inc. ended 1.10% higher at $230.26, and with a total volume of 3.88 million shares traded. The stock has advanced 22.85% in the last one month and 0.24% in the previous three months. The Company’s shares are trading above their 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 19.83% and 0.78%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Tesla have an RSI of 64.61. The complete trade setup on TSLA is available for free at: http://valuableinvestment.com/TSLA -- About ValuableInvestment.com: Valuable Investment was founded in 2006 and has been successfully alerting investors and shareholders of the most profitable ways to earn a living on Wall Street. A decade is a very long time so we must be doing something right. We encourage everyone to come and try our strategy and see how we have been changing the foundation of research for years. PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES: The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the “Author”) and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the “Reviewer”). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer and the Sponsor have not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author, the Reviewer, or the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the “Production Team”) in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. NO WARRANTY ValuableInvestment.com, the Author, the Reviewer, and the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the “Publishers”) are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. NOT AN OFFERING This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither valuableinvestment.com nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://valuableinvestment.com/ RESTRICTIONS ValuableInvestment.com is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia. CONTACT For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at: E-mail: press@valuableinvestment.com SOURCE: ValuableInvestment.com