ARMONK, N.Y., March 30, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- IBM (NYSE: IBM) has been named the market leader in Cloud Application Development and Transformation by leading independent technology market research firm, Technology Business Research, Inc. (TBR). The recent report, Cloud Customer Research Topical Report: New vs. Legacy Applications, ranked IBM a leader in several categories including highest in customer satisfaction and in enterprise adoption for application transformation services. View photo The report is part of a customer research program that evaluates responses of more than 2,100 enterprises globally and analyzes the preferences around cloud and legacy application migration of nearly 700 enterprises. IBM won high satisfaction scores because its cloud platform provides developers with application portability and flexibility, integration between other applications from the same vendor, and application program interface capabilities that extend to other vendors. In other words, IBM features an application development portfolio that is broad and expands cloud delivery methods, enabling hybrid development. Other report findings include IBM winning high praise for allowing developers to build applications in hybrid PaaS, with options to develop, test and run in a private or public environment, or in a combination of the two. IBM, for instance, enables hybrid cloud application creation with its behind-the-firewall-application development solution, Bluemix Local. These same vendors are identified as leading the pack as the most-used cloud development platform because they improve the developer experience with features such as containers, application marketplaces and tools that allow business users to develop applications. The report went on to say that, "TBR believes that IBM leads other vendors in application transformation because it provides customers a broad portfolio, complete with a dedicated services arm, that allows it to cater to individual enterprise needs." The report also saw IBM receive the highest customer satisfaction scores, consistent across all geographies and deployment methods, due to the variety of options they offer customers. For more information on the Cloud Customer Research Topical Report: New vs. Legacy Applications report, please click here. About TBR Technology Business Research, Inc. is a leading independent technology market research and consulting firm specializing in the business and financial analyses of hardware, software, professional services, telecom and enterprise network vendors, and operators. Serving a global clientele, TBR provides timely and actionable market research and business intelligence in a format that is uniquely tailored to clients' needs. Our analysts are available to further address client-specific issues or information needs on an inquiry or proprietary consulting basis. TBR has been empowering corporate decision makers since 1996. For more information please visit www.tbri.com. About IBM Cloud For more information about cloud offerings from IBM, visit www.ibm.com/cloud. Media contacts Andre Fuochi IBM +1 469.394.7274 afuochi@us.ibm.com Heather Waters Technology Business Research +1 603.758.1843 heather.waters@tbri.com Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20090416/IBMLOGO To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ibm-named-hybrid-cloud-development-platform-leader-in-tbr-survey-300243252.html