ARMONK, N.Y., March 18, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- IBM (NYSE: IBM) today announced that it has acquired Optevia, a privately owned Software as a service, (SaaS), systems integrator specializing in Microsoft Dynamics CRM solutions for public sector organizations. Optevia will join IBM Global Business Services and help meet the increasing client demand for CRM SaaS solutions within the public sector. View photo Industry experts estimate that the world-wide Customer Relationship Management (CRM) opportunity is in excess of $23B, with cloud-based CRM solutions expected to surpass 50 percent of that total.1 The acquisition of Optevia, will help IBM establish itself as a premier SaaS and digital consultant and accelerate leadership in CRM solutions. Optevia's main focus on UK Emergency Services, Central Government, Local Government, Health Authorities and Housing and Social Enterprises, allows them to offer their clients highly differentiated solutions. Optevia's client base includes ministries, councils, regulators, licensing and grant management organizations, transport authorities and social housing organizations. "By acquiring Optevia, IBM will be able to provide Public Sector clients and prospects with a range of unique, industry focused CRM based solutions," said Joanna Davinson, IBM Public Sector Leader - Europe. "This strategic acquisition will help strengthen IBM as a SaaS provider and Global Software Integrator." Since its founding in 2001, Optevia has rapidly established itself as a trusted partner for Public Sector and Social Enterprise clients. The acquisition will allow IBM to scale Optevia's solutions across other areas worldwide, where Optevia's software, assets and highly skilled, industry-focused workforce, coupled with their expertise will significantly increase IBM's current capabilities. For more information on IBM public sector services visit: http://www.ibm.com/uk-en/ 1http://softwarestrategiesblog.com/tag/paas-forecast/ IBM, the IBM logo, ibm.com, MobileFirst for iOS are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation, registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. Other product and service names might be trademarks of IBM or other companies. For a current list of IBM trademarks, please see www.ibm.com/legal/copytrade.shtml All other company, product or service names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of others. Statements concerning IBM's future development plans and schedules are made for planning purposes only, and are subject to change or withdrawal without notice. Reseller prices may vary. Media Contacts: Chris Rubsamen      IBM External Relations +1 914-319-8156                                   rubsamen@us.ibm.com Lucy Linthwaite IBM External Relations +44 020 7021 8911 lucy.linthwaite@uk.ibm.com Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20090416/IBMLOGO To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ibm-acquires-optevia-expanding-role-as-solutions-provider-for-public-sector-clients-300238075.html