IBM Closes Deal to Acquire Merge Healthcare
IBM October 13, 2015 2:10 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
ARMONK, N.Y. and CHICAGO, Oct. 13, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- IBM (NYSE: IBM ) today announced that it has completed the acquisition of Merge Healthcare Incorporated , a leading provider of medical image handling and processing, interoperability and clinical systems. Under terms of the $1 billion transaction, Merge shareholders will receive $7.13 per share in cash.  
View photo
.
Merge's technology platforms are used at more than 7,500 U.S. healthcare sites, as well as many of the world's leading clinical research institutes and pharmaceutical firms to manage a growing body of medical images. It is anticipated that these organizations will look to use the Watson Health Cloud to surface new insights from a consolidated, patient-centric view of current and historical images, electronic health records, consumer contributed data from wearable devices and other related medical data, in a HIPAA-enabled cloud environment. These insights can help clinicians to efficiently identify options for the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of a broad array of health conditions such as cancer, stroke and heart disease.
Merge will become part of IBM's new Watson Health business unit, bolstering IBM clients' ability to analyze and cross-reference medical images against 315 billion data points already in the Watson Health Cloud, including lab results, electronic health records, genomic tests, clinical studies and other health-related data sources. Merge's clients could compare new medical images with a patient's medical history as well as populations of similar patients to detect changes and anomalies. Insights generated by Watson could then help healthcare providers and researchers to pursue more personalized approaches to diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of patients.
About IBM Watson Health
Watson is the first commercially available cognitive computing capability representing a new era in computing. The system, delivered through the cloud, analyzes high volumes of data, and complex questions posed in natural language, and proposes evidence-based options. Watson continuously learns, gaining in value and knowledge over time, from previous interactions. In April 2015, the company launched IBM Watson Health and the Watson Health Cloud platform. The new unit will help improve the ability of doctors, researchers and insurers to innovate by surfacing new insights from the massive amount of personal health data being created daily. The Watson Health Cloud allows this information to be de-identified, shared and combined with a dynamic and constantly growing aggregated view of clinical, research and social health data.
About IBM
For more information on IBM Watson, visit: ibm.com/watson.  For more information on IBM Watson Health, visit: ibm.com/watsonhealth
Check out the IBM Watson press kit at: http://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/presskit/27297.wss
Join the conversation at #ibmwatson and #watsonhealth.   Follow Watson on Facebook and see Watson on YouTube and Flickr. 
Learn more about this story at: http://asmarterplanet.com/blog/2015/08/seeing-believing-bringing-cognitive-image-analytics-healthcare.html and https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/47435.wss    
Media Contact
