SANTA CLARA, California and PUNE, India, March 22, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- More Than 1,000 Persistent Engineers Dedicated to IBM Watson IoT Platform and IBM IoT Continuous Engineering Solutions   Persistent Systems (BSE & NSE: PERSISTENT) today announced it is working with IBM (NYSE: IBM) to improve and transform engineering processes, integrating new specialized consulting services via the IBM Watson Internet of Things (IoT) Platform to help engineers integrate massive amount of data from the IoT into product development. Persistent has more than 1,000 engineers dedicated to IBM, the IBM Watson IoT Platform and IBM IoT Continuous Engineering solutions, and the new specialized services around engineering, software development and data analytics will provide clients with the necessary skills and steps to adopt more agile practices for engineering.      (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20141106/714346 ) The alliance combines IBM Watson IoT Platform with Persistent Systems' expertise around continuous engineering, analytics and enterprise digital transformation. IBM Watson IoT Platform is a set of capabilities that learn from, and infuse intelligence into, the physical world and is a response to how to capture the real-time opportunity presented by the Internet of Things. IBM IoT Continuous Engineering Solutions are designed to help manufacturers create smart, connected devices, while addressing the cost, time and quality challenges in delivering complex, connected products for the IoT. "IBM's work with Persistent demonstrates our company's commitment to providing organizations with the tools and services they need to boost operational performance, transform customer experience and drive industry disruption in the Internet of Things, which requires a new approach to solution development," said Chris O'Connor, General Manager, IBM Watson IoT Offerings. "Through continuous engineering, we can help customers to more quickly adapt to the huge amounts of data available to make strategic decisions and innovate more seamlessly. From improving the customer experience and offering new services to boosting operational performance, continuous engineering is key to the success of IoT." "Our alliance with IBM drives the vision of software-driven everything as the next step in the digital transformation of enterprises," said Anand Deshpande, Persistent Systems founder and CEO. "Our work builds on our strengths at Persistent Systems to build software-driven businesses for our customers as IoT and the actionable insights derived from it become integral to new software-driven experiences and business models." IoT-generated data is growing twice as fast as social and computer-generated data. It is extremely varied, noisy, time-sensitive and often confidential. This complexity only grows as billions of devices interact in the world and tests the limits of programmable computing. Cognitive IoT is not explicitly programmed but instead learns from experiences with the environment and interactions with people. It brings true machine learning to systems and processes so they can understand goals, then integrate and analyze the relevant data to help customers achieve them. The alliance builds on the long-standing relationship between the two companies on a wide range of technology and development collaborations extending across engineering, product and solution development, and go-to-market initiatives. Persistent Systems currently has more than 1,000 engineers with extensive training and who are dedicated on IBM platforms including Watson, Continuous Engineering and BlueMix. Each company will also join each other's advisory board. For more information about IBM Watson IoT, please visit www.ibm.com/iot About Persistent Systems:  Persistent Systems (BSE & NSE: PERSISTENT) builds software that drives the business of our customers; enterprises and software product companies with software at the core of their digital transformation. For more information, visit: http://www.persistent.com/ . Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements: For risks and uncertainties relating to forward-looking statements, please visit: http://content.persistent.com/Pslweb/forward_looking_cautionary_statement.shtml For more information, please contact: Ken Montgomery Persistent Systems Vice President, Global Communications Tel: +1-949-939-5164 Email: Ken_montgomery@persistent.com Hitesh Garg Text100 Tel: +91-9833482728 Email: Hitesh.garg@text100.co.in