Content preferences
Done
ARMONK, N.Y., Oct. 15, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- IBM (NYSE: IBM ) today announced it is working with electronic parts distributor Premier Farnell to provide its account managers with powerful analytics and mobile insights through a MobileFirst for iOS app on iPad and iPhone to support millions of engineers and purchasing professionals globally. 
View photo
.
Premier Farnell, a global distributor of technology products and solutions for electronic system design, employs account managers that visit customers to understand their buying needs and create a quote for components or solutions used to design, maintain and repair electronic systems ranging from tablets to home appliances. However, account managers are unable to provide the customer with an estimate during the initial visit.  Premier Farnell worked with Apple and IBM to develop a new made-for-business app that redefines the quote build and approval process.  Sales reps will soon be able to close the deal in the initial customer meeting.
"We will be able to empower Premier Farnell's entire sales force with mobile capabilities to gather data to quickly and accurately deliver project quotes," said Gert Labuschagne, Chief Sales & Marketing Officer for Premier Farnell.  "Working with Apple and IBM, we can offer our customers a transparent view into our pricing scheme that should allow them to feel confident in their buying decision."
To better serve the customer's needs and gain a 360 degree view, Premier Farnell employees will be armed with iPads/iPhones on customer visits to render information that is specific to the customer. This access allows employees to save time by quickly identifying the customer's product portfolio.
Additionally, the app will increase employee productivity, allowing sellers to spend more time closing deals, rather than on negotiations. On the job training becomes easier, as fewer mistakes are made gathering and creating a preliminary quote. Using the app, account managers will have a dramatically simplified view of more than 600,000 products Premier Farnell stocks. Under terms of the agreement, iPhones/Pads will be distributed to Premier Farnell employees as the app is rolled out globally. 
"Across industries, Apple and IBM are allowing organizations to tap in to their data and put analytics in the hands of employees to transform the way they work," said Bruce Anderson, General Manager Global Electronics Industry, IBM. "The enterprise app we've developed for Premier Farnell will provide account managers a new set of tools to close deals while also improving the overall customer experience."   
For more information regarding IBM MobileFirst for iOS apps and services please visit www.ibm.com/mobilefirst/us/en/mobilefirst-for-ios.html  or www.apple.com/business/mobile-enterprise-apps/ .
About Premier Farnell
Premier Farnell plc (LSE: PFL.L ) is a global leader in high service distribution of technology products and solutions for electronic system design, production, maintenance and repair. Trading as Farnell element14 in Europe, Newark element14 in North America and element14 across Asia Pacific, it had sales last year of £960m, the Group is supported by a global supply chain of more than 3,000 suppliers and an inventory profile developed to anticipate and meet its customers' needs.
Premier Farnell works to bring to market development kits in a variety of applications, enabling it to support the customer from design concept through to production.
The latest products, software, services and solutions from trusted supplier partners are all available through 43 local language transactional websites. The element14 Community allows buyers and engineers to access a wide range of independent technical information, tools and the latest resources and the Design Center enables design engineers to compare kits from the world's greatest range of development tools.
Contacts
