AdCare Board Declares Quarterly Cash Dividend of $0.055 per Share of Common Stock
AdCare Health Systems, Inc. June 30, 2015 8:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
ATLANTA, June 30, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- AdCare Health Systems, Inc. (NYSE MKT: ADK) (NYSE MKT: ADK.PRA), a self-managed healthcare real estate investment company that invests primarily in real estate purposed for senior living and long-term healthcare, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend on the Company's common stock.
On June 30, 2015, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.055 per share of common stock, payable on July 31, 2015 to shareholders of record as of July 15, 2015. The quarterly dividend would represent an annualized dividend of $0.22 per share. Based on the closing share price on June 29, 2015, this represents a dividend yield of 6.6%.
About AdCare Health Systems
AdCare Health Systems, Inc. (NYSE MKT: ADK) (NYSE MKT: ADK.PRA) is a self-managed healthcare real estate investment company that invests primarily in real estate purposed for senior living and long-term healthcare through facility lease and sub-lease transactions. The Company currently owns, leases or manages for third parties 40 facilities, primarily in the Southeast. For more information about AdCare, visit www.adcarehealth.com .
Important Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements contained in this press release that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal law. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "plans," "intends," "anticipates" and variations of such words or similar expressions, but their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking. Statements in this press release that are forward-looking include, among other things, statements regarding the strategic plan to transition the Company to a healthcare facilities holding and leasing company and statements regarding the annualized dividend. Such forward-looking statements reflect management's beliefs and assumptions and are based upon information currently available to management and involve known and unknown risks, results, performance or achievements of AdCare, which may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors are identified in the public filings made by AdCare with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. There is no assurance that such factors or other factors will not affect the accuracy of such forward-looking statements. Except where required by law, AdCare undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
In addition, each facility mentioned in this press release is operated by a separate, wholly owned, independent operating subsidiary that has its own management, employees and assets.
References to the consolidated company and its assets and activities, as well as the use of terms such as "we," "us," "our," and similar verbiage, is not meant to imply that AdCare Health Systems, Inc. has direct operating assets, employees or revenue or that any of the facilities, the home health business or other related businesses are operated by the same entity.
 
To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/adcare-board-declares-quarterly-cash-dividend-of-0055-per-share-of-common-stock-300106457.html
Health Care Industry
