AdCare Board Declares a Quarterly Cash Dividend of $0.06 per Share of Common Stock
Increases Quarterly Dividend by 9.1% Compared With Dividend Declared in Prior Quarter
AdCare Health Systems, Inc. September 30, 2015 8:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
ATLANTA, Sept. 30, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- AdCare Health Systems, Inc. (NYSE MKT: ADK) (NYSE MKT: ADK.PRA), a self-managed healthcare real estate investment company that invests primarily in real estate purposed for senior living and long-term healthcare, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared an increased cash dividend on the Company's common stock.
On September 29, 2015, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.06 per share of common stock, payable on October 31, 2015 to shareholders of record as of October 15, 2015. This quarterly dividend, if annualized, represents an annual dividend of $0.24 per share, and an increase of 9.1% compared with the dividend declared on June 30, 2015 and paid on July 31, 2015. Based on the closing share price on September 29, 2015, a $0.06 per share quarterly dividend, if annualized, represents an annual dividend yield of 7.3%.
As previously disclosed, based on the company's projected current and accumulated negative earnings and profits (E&P) tax position, the company expects cash dividends paid to common stockholders for 2015 (and until such time that the company may have positive current or accumulated E&P) should be treated as a return of capital to stockholders to the extent available for federal income tax purposes.
About AdCare Health Systems
AdCare Health Systems, Inc. (NYSE MKT: ADK) (NYSE MKT: ADK.PRA) is a self-managed healthcare real estate investment company that invests primarily in real estate purposed for senior living and long-term healthcare through facility lease and sub-lease transactions. The Company currently owns, leases or manages for third parties 39 facilities. For more information about AdCare, visit www.adcarehealth.com .
Important Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements contained in this press release that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal law. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "plans," "intends," "anticipates" and variations of such words or similar expressions, but their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking. Statements in this press release that are forward-looking include, among other things, statements regarding annualized dividends. Such forward-looking statements reflect management's beliefs and assumptions and are based upon information currently available to management and involve known and unknown risks, results, performance or achievements of AdCare, which may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors are identified in the public filings made by AdCare with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including AdCare's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. There is no assurance that such factors or other factors will not affect the accuracy of such forward-looking statements. Except where required by law, AdCare undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
 
