Aeolus Pharmateucticals to Present at LD Micro Invitational Conference
Aeolus Pharmaceuticals May 28, 2015 7:30 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
MISSION VIEJO, CA--(Marketwired - May 28, 2015) - Aeolus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( AOLS ), a biotechnology company developing compounds to protect against radiological and chemical threats in partnership with the US Government, announced today that David C. Cavalier, Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, will present at the LD Micro Invitational Conference on Tuesday, June 2nd, 2015 at 11:30 AM PDT (2:30 PM EDT) at the Luxe Sunset Boulevard Hotel in Los Angeles. Mr. Cavalier will provide an overview of Aeolus' development programs with a focus on the Company's progress under its contract with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA"). The BARDA contract, worth up to $118.4 million, funds all development costs for the Company's lead compound, AEOL 10150, as a treatment for the pulmonary effects of acute radiation exposure ("Lung-ARS") following a nuclear event.
"We are honored to have Aeolus Pharmaceuticals present at the conference," stated Chris Lahiji, President of LD Micro.
A webcast of the presentation will be available live on the Company's website at www.aolsrx.com . The presentation will also be archived for viewing after the conference.
About Aeolus Pharmaceuticals
Aeolus Pharmaceuticals is developing a new class of broad-spectrum, catalytic-antioxidant compounds that protect healthy tissue from the damaging effects of radiation. Its first compound, AEOL 10150, is being developed, with funding by the US Department of Health and Human Services, as a medical countermeasure against chemical and radiological weapons, where its initial target indications are as a protective agent against the effects of acute radiation syndrome and delayed effects of acute radiation exposure. Aeolus' strategy is to leverage the substantial investment in toxicology, manufacturing, and preclinical and clinical studies made by US Government agencies in AEOL 10150, including the contract with BARDA valued, with options, at up to $118.4 million, to efficiently develop the compound for use in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and oncology. For more information, please visit Aeolus's corporate website at www.aolsrx.com .
About AEOL 10150
AEOL 10150 is a broad-spectrum catalytic antioxidant specifically designed to neutralize reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. The neutralization of these species reduces oxidative stress, inflammation, and subsequent tissue damage-signaling cascades resulting from radiation exposure. AEOL 10150 has performed well in preclinical and non-clinical studies, demonstrating statistically significant survival benefit in acute radiation-induced lung injury models, and was well-tolerated in two human clinical trials. The Company believes it could have a profound beneficial impact on people exposed to high-doses of radiation from a nuclear event or in the course of treatment for cancer. AEOL 10150 has been awarded Orphan Drug status by the US FDA for the treatment of Lung-ARS and for Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.
About LD Micro
LD Micro is a newsletter firm that focuses on finding undervalued companies in the micro-cap space. Since 2002, the firm has published reports on select companies throughout the year. LD Micro concentrates on finding, researching, and investing in companies that are often overlooked by institutional investors. It is a non-registered investment advisor. For more information on the list of presenting companies or to register for the event, please visit www.ldmicro.com or call (408) 457-1042.
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements in this press release that are not purely statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Such statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to Aeolus' product candidates, as well as its proprietary technologies and research programs, the Company's potential initiation of a phase 1 study in healthy normal volunteers, the BARDA Contract. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Aeolus' actual results to be materially different from historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause results to differ include risks associated with uncertainties of progress and timing of clinical trials, scientific research and product development activities, difficulties or delays in development, testing, obtaining regulatory approval, the need to obtain funding for pre-clinical and clinical trials and operations, the scope and validity of intellectual property protection for Aeolus' product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, and competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, and whether BARDA exercises one or more additional options under the BARDA Contract. Certain of these factors and others are more fully described in Aeolus' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Aeolus' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2014. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Health Care Industry
