Its First-Ever, Live Daily Show Premieres Tonight at 9 ET/6 PT at www.amazon.com/stylecodelive Free, live interactive show brings viewers the latest trends in fashion and beauty Viewers get tips from expert guests, discover new fashion and beauty products, and can easily shop while watching View photo  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- (AMZN)—Amazon today announced the premiere of its first daily, live show, Style Code Live. The show is dedicated to fashion and beauty, featuring useful tips from style experts and viewers, looks the audience can easily shop, and an interactive viewing experience that includes live chat. Style Code Live is a 30-minute show, free to all viewers, and streams weeknights at 9 ET/6 PT at www.amazon.com/stylecodelive. Viewers can also follow Style Code Live for show updates on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and Snapchat (StyleCodeLive). This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160308005741/en/ The Style Code Live team is led by hosts Lyndsey Rodrigues, Rachel Smith, and Frankie Grande. Together they bring three unique styles—and one shared style-obsession. Lyndsey has hosted shows including MTV’s Total Request Live and has interviewed a range of film and music stars. Her style code is edgy yet totally approachable. She is influenced by NYC, where there is no wrong answer in fashion. Rachel is a correspondent at ABC News for Good Morning America and Nightline. Her style code is classic and feminine—though she admits to loving a gutsy look and spending her weekends in harem pants. Frankie is a television personality and theatre actor. He is best known for his appearance on CBS’s Big Brother 16 and his role in Rock of Ages on Broadway. His style code is glam—inspiring people to step out of the background and into the spotlight. “I'm so thrilled to be a part of Style Code Live. Live TV is my greatest passion, and to be able to work on such an original and interactive show really is a dream come true,” said host Lyndsey Rodrigues. “Bring on the live premiere!” “Our customers love fashion, and have wanted a place to keep up with new trends and get expert tips. We created Style Code Live for them, and we are just getting started with this show,” said Munira Rahemtulla, head of Style Code Live. “The team can't wait for tonight’s premiere—come watch with us at 9 p.m. Eastern.” “Style Code Live gives viewers a first-of-its-kind daily style and entertainment experience. We’re live, interactive, and covering the latest trends in fashion and beauty each weeknight—with guest experts, celebrities, and viewer tips,” added Terence Noonan, Style Code Live’s Executive Producer. “We are building a community and are super excited for our viewers to be part of it.” On tonight’s live premiere, guest Danielle Bernstein, founder of fashion blog WeWoreWhat, shares her top three must-haves for spring. Also this week Grammy winner Meghan Trainor talks fashion and beauty and shares the inside scoop on her new single “No,” Frankie talks with actress Keri Russell on the red carpet of her TV series premiere, and YouTube star Tati Westbrook reveals her beauty pick of the week. “I am absolutely thrilled to be on this new adventure hosting Style Code Live! It’s been exciting cultivating the show’s fresh take on programming and the viewing experience,” said host Rachel Smith. “Anyone who loves fashion and beauty can watch, weigh-in on the conversation, and take away something valuable.” Every weeknight the Style Code Live team and expert guests will help viewers discover products to achieve the looks they want. They will style and model on-trend looks such as print mixing, debate style do’s-and-don’ts, and share beauty hacks like how to use a bold red lipstick as concealer. Style Code Live has interactive features which involve the audience in every live show. Examples include: “I am BEYOND excited about Style Code Live! It is a fun, informative, and energetic show where we will be able to interact with our audience in ways never done before,” said host Frankie Grande. “I am very proud to be a part of it!” Style Code Live streams live Monday through Thursday at 9 PT/6 ET, with a “best of” show on Friday. Today viewers can watch on their computers at www.amazon.com/stylecodelive, with mobile coming soon. Anyone can follow Style Code Live via Instagram (@StyleCodeLive), Facebook (www.facebook.com/StyleCodeLive), Snapchat (StyleCodeLive), and Twitter (@StyleCodeLive), and subscribe to receive Style Code Live email notifications. About Style Code Live Style Code Live – Amazon’s first daily, live show – is dedicated to fashion and beauty, featuring useful tips from style experts and viewers, looks the audience can easily shop, and an interactive viewing experience that includes live chat. The show is free to all viewers and streams live Monday through Thursday at 9 p.m. ET/6 p.m. PT, with a “best of” show on Friday. Viewers can watch on their computers, with mobile coming soon. To follow the show via Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and Snapchat (StyleCodeLive), and sign up to receive email notifications with Style Code Live news, visit www.amazon.com/stylecodelive. About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160308005741/en/ MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160308005741/en/