Amazon Payments Extends the Trust and Familiarity of Amazon to Partners and Merchants  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Amazon (AMZN) today announced the launch of the Amazon Payments Partner Program, a new global program designed to help ecommerce platform providers and developers extend the trust and familiarity of Amazon Payments to their merchant customers. The Amazon Payments Partner Program offers unique tools and services to help Partners grow their merchant business by offering easy integration with Amazon Payments. The Amazon Payments Partner Program includes solution pre-integration and best practices to help ensure that merchants receive the most effective solutions. Merchants will be eligible to receive exclusive benefits and services from the program such as knowledge-sharing and white glove integration services. The program is free to participate in and available by invitation in the United States, Germany, United Kingdom and Japan. “The Amazon Payments Partner Program provides Partners with the tools and resources needed to extend the trust and convenience of the Amazon experience to their merchant customers,” said Patrick Gauthier, vice president, Amazon Payments. “We are working together across geographies and industries to help merchants grow and create experiences that delight customers throughout the shopping journey.” The Amazon Payments Partner Program includes Premier Partner, Certified Partner, and Certified Developer levels, with distinct certified categories for ecommerce platform providers and developers. As members of the Amazon Payments Partner Program, Partners are eligible to receive account management, planning support, technical resources and training, Partner directory listing, Partner designation with exclusive logos, and certain Partners may also be eligible for co-marketing activities. "The convenience and trust that Amazon Payments provides customers already attracts lots of our merchants. We are honored to participate in the Amazon Payments Partner Program,” said Yuko Hoshino, President of Future Shop Co., Ltd. "Together, we will support the growth of our merchant business and contribute to the revitalization of the ecommerce industry in Japan by combining the capabilities of FutureShop2 with the convenience of Amazon Payments." “Amazon Payments extends the trusted and familiar experience of Amazon to our merchants across Europe and the United States,” said Corinne Lejbowicz, CEO PrestaShop SA. “We’re excited to be a Premier Partner in Amazon Payments Partner Program as we provide our users with the tools and resources necessary to grow their business.” “Our merchants want to offer their customers a payment solution that is trusted, easy and familiar,” said Brennan Loh, Director of Business Development at Shopify. “We’re excited to be a Premier Partner in the Amazon Payments Partner Program, enabling our merchants to offer Pay with Amazon." To learn more about Amazon Payments Partner Program, visit: https://payments.amazon.com/merchant/global-partner-program. About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160404005549/en/