Amazon to create 1,000 full-time positions at state-of-the-art Edgerton facility  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) today announced plans to open a state-of-the-art fulfillment center in Edgerton, Kansas. This facility will create approximately 1,000 full-time hourly positions, plus many managerial and support roles to support customer fulfillment. In Kansas, Amazon currently operates facilities in Lenexa. “We’re excited to bring 1,000 great full-time jobs with benefits to the Kansas City region and proud to further invest in the state with this new fulfillment center,” said Akash Chauhan, Amazon’s vice president of North American operations. “We are grateful for the enthusiasm of our many state and local partners who have supported Amazon in bringing a new fulfillment center to Kansas. This has been a true team effort.” Amazon employees at the 800,000-plus square-foot Edgerton fulfillment center will pick, pack and ship large items to customers such as big-screen televisions, sports equipment or kayaks, for example. Full-time employees at Amazon receive competitive hourly wages and a comprehensive benefits package, including healthcare, 401(k) and company stock awards starting on day one, as well as generous maternity and paternity leave benefits. Amazon also offers regular full-time employees innovative programs like Career Choice, where it will pre-pay up to 95 percent of tuition for courses related to in-demand fields, regardless of whether the skills are relevant to a career at Amazon. Since the program’s launch, employees are pursuing degrees in game design and visual communications, nursing, IT programming and radiology, to name a few. Governor Sam Brownback said, “This is good news for Kansas. In addition to creating 1,000 jobs, Amazon is investing in our state, workforce and the community. The quality of the Kansas workforce and our central location in the heart of the nation contributed to their decision to locate in Logistics Park Kansas City.” “The City of Edgerton is pleased that Amazon has chosen a site at Logistics Park Kansas City,” said Edgerton Mayor Donald Roberts. "Amazon's innovative new facility and quality job creation supports and validates the City's continued efforts of creating global routes with local roots. We look forward to having Amazon as a community partner in Edgerton for years to come.” Greg Martinette, of Southwest Johnson County Economic Development Corp. said, "Our residents along with our central location, squarely in the middle of the country, have given us this opportunity to partner with one of America’s best corporations. Most importantly, Amazon will create good career and job opportunities for our residents.” To learn more about working at an Amazon fulfillment center, visit www.workatamazonfulfillment.com. About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160324006184/en/