Amazon Student and Amazon Prime members at Georgia Tech will get Free Same-Day Pickup on millions of items when shipped to the Amazon@GeorgiaTech location Amazon@GeorgiaTech will be the first Amazon pickup location in Georgia  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- (AMZN)–Amazon today announced an agreement with Georgia Institute of Technology to open Amazon@GeorgiaTech, a staffed pickup location at 86 Fifth Street NW on the Georgia Tech campus. The first Amazon pickup location in the state of Georgia, Amazon@GeorgiaTech offers the campus community, as well as the larger Midtown Atlanta community a convenient location in Technology Square to pick up and return Amazon orders, including virtually everything one needs, from everyday essentials to technology. Opening later this summer, this approximately 2,500-square-foot space will be conveniently situated for Georgia Tech students, staff and faculty. Additionally, Amazon Student and Prime members will receive Free Same-Day Pickup for orders placed by noon and Free One-Day Pickup for orders placed by 10PM. To learn more about Amazon Student, visit amazon.com/joinstudent. “Technology Square is often considered the epicenter of innovation for Georgia Tech and Midtown Atlanta. It is fitting that such a unique operation will be housed here to serve our community,” said Paul Strouts, Vice President Campus Services at Georgia Tech. “Our students are savvy consumers who value the efficiency and convenience of online shopping. We are pleased to offer a service that takes the delivery experience to a new level through novel engineering and the creative application of technology.” “Amazon@GeorgiaTech will offer more opportunities for Georgia Tech students to save on their overall costs along with great customer service, better selection and convenience,” said Ripley MacDonald, Director of Amazon Student Programs. “We’re excited to continue to bring more Amazon pickup locations to even more campus communities.” Since 2015, Amazon has opened staffed pickup locations at the following universities: Purdue University, University of Massachusetts Amherst, and University of California, Berkeley, as well as in the college communities of University of California, Santa Barbara, and University of Cincinnati. In addition to The Georgia Institute of Technology, Amazon also will open four more locations in 2016 with the University of Pennsylvania, University of California, Davis, and The University of Texas at Austin, as well as in the college community of University of Akron. About Amazon Student Amazon Student gives college students Free Two-Day Shipping on millions of items, and special offers and promotions created just for students as part of the six-month free trial. After that it’s just $49 a year—half the price of a regular Amazon Prime membership—and includes unlimited streaming of movies and TV shows with Prime Video, over a million songs with Prime Music, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. To learn more, visit amazon.com/joinstudent. About Georgia Institute of Technology The Georgia Institute of Technology, also known as Georgia Tech, is one of the nation’s leading research universities, providing a focused, technologically based education to more than 25,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Georgia Tech has many nationally recognized programs, all top-ranked by peers and publications alike, and is ranked in the nation’s top 10 public universities by U.S. News and World Report. It offers degrees through the Colleges of Architecture, Computing, Engineering, Sciences, the Scheller College of Business, and the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. As a leading technological university, Georgia Tech has more than 100 centers focused on interdisciplinary research that consistently contribute vital research and innovation to American government, industry, and business. About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160308005591/en/