Amazon Student and Amazon Prime members will get Free One-Day Pickup on millions of items when shipped to the Amazon@Akron location  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- (AMZN)–Amazon today announced Amazon@Akron, a fully staffed pickup location near the University of Akron campus. The second Amazon pickup location in Ohio, Amazon@Akron offers the UA community a convenient location to pick up and return Amazon orders, including virtually everything one needs, from college essentials to technology. Opening in Summer 2016, this 1,980-square-foot space will be located at 290 East Exchange Street, centrally located near the university and easily accessible to students and the Akron community. Additionally, Amazon Student and Prime members will receive Free One-Day Pickup for orders placed by 10PM. To learn more about Amazon Student, visit amazon.com/joinstudent. “We are excited to bring Amazon@Akron to the UA and greater Akron community,” said Ripley MacDonald, Director of Amazon Student Programs. “Whether students are ordering course materials, electronics or mac and cheese, Amazon@Akron will provide a convenient and secure spot for them to pick up their stuff at hours that work with their schedules.” Since 2015, Amazon has opened staffed pickup locations at the following universities: Purdue University, University of Massachusetts Amherst, and University of California, Berkeley, as well as in the college communities of University of California, Santa Barbara, and University of Cincinnati. Amazon also has confirmed agreements to open three more locations in 2016 with the University of Pennsylvania, the University of California, Davis, and The University of Texas at Austin. About Amazon Student Amazon Student gives college students Free Two-Day Shipping on millions of items, and special offers and promotions created just for students as part of the six-month free trial. After that it’s just $49 a year—half the price of a regular Amazon Prime membership—and includes unlimited streaming of movies and TV shows with Prime Video, over a million songs with Prime Music, and access to the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. To learn more, visit amazon.com/joinstudent. About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160304005074/en/