Amazon to create more than 1,000 full-time hourly roles at its third facility in San Bernardino  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) today announced plans to open a seventh California fulfillment center in San Bernardino, where the company launched its first Golden State fulfillment center in 2012. Amazon currently employs more than 12,000 full-time hourly associates at its six existing California locations and plans to create more than 1,000 more full-time positions in the new San Bernardino facility. Outside of San Bernardino, Amazon’s other Golden State fulfillment centers are located in Tracy, Patterson, Moreno Valley, Redlands and Rialto. “San Bernardino has proven to be an important part of Amazon’s growth in California, and we are proud to continue creating jobs and helping support the economy here in the Inland Empire,” said Akash Chauhan, Amazon’s vice president of North American operations. “Over the past three and a half years, we have not only built a network of top-notch fulfillment centers across the state, but we’ve also provided continuing education classrooms onsite, generous paid parental leave benefits and leadership growth for associates ? in addition to competitive wages.” Amazon employees at the 1.1 million-square-foot San Bernardino fulfillment center will pick, pack, and ship smaller customer items, such as books, electronics and toys. “We are excited Amazon continues to view San Bernardino as a great place to do business and we’re proud to be part of Amazon’s history and future,” said Mayor R. Carey Davis of San Bernardino. “The company continues hosting a robust public tours program, donating needed items and volunteer hours to local charities, and supporting local businesses on a regular basis.” Full-time employees at Amazon receive competitive hourly wages and a comprehensive benefits package, including healthcare, 401(k) and company stock awards starting on day one, as well as generous maternity and paternity leave benefits. Amazon also offers regular full-time employees innovative programs like Career Choice, where it will pre-pay up to 95 percent of tuition for courses related to in-demand fields, regardless of whether the skills are relevant to a career at Amazon. Since the program’s launch, employees are pursuing degrees in game design and visual communications, nursing, IT programming and radiology, to name a few. To learn more about working at an Amazon fulfillment center, visit www.workatamazonfulfillment.com. The project is being developed by Hillwood Investments. About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160330005293/en/