New Recording of James’s Chilling Ghost Story Now Available for Download at Audible.com  NEWARK, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Audible Studios, a production arm of Audible.com, today announced the release of two-time Academy Award winner Emma Thompson’s audio interpretation of Henry James’s gothic novel The Turn of the Screw. This stirring performance of the famously spooky tale by the star of Saving Mr. Banks, Sense and Sensibility, Love Actually, Nanny McPhee, and the Harry Potter film series is now available for download at audible.com/EmmaThompson. Thompson is joined on this production by listener favorite and star of The Hobbit Richard Armitage, who lends his voice to the story’s prologue. “The chance to interpret the work of Henry James is a thrill for any actor, so I was delighted to have the opportunity to perform this brilliantly sinister Victorian masterpiece for Audible,” said Thompson, who recorded this moody, macabre story in Audible’s London studios. “This is a tale that really gets under your skin – so I invite you to curl up with a blanket, some cocoa, and maybe leave the lights on.” In addition to Thompson’s Academy Awards, she has won two Golden Globe Awards and one Emmy Award, among many other awards. “On screen, Emma Thompson has portrayed heroic and horrific characters from some of the most important works in literature, and her rendition of this landmark work truly stands alongside her most memorable and moving film performances,” said Audible EVP and Publisher Beth Anderson. “She is a perfect match for this brilliant, chilling text – listeners will be hooked by this unnerving audiobook until the very last minute of the recording.” With a 30-day membership trial at Audible, new listeners can enjoy any one audiobook, including Thompson’s performance of The Turn of the Screw, for free. In addition to Thompson, among the acclaimed performers who have recently narrated works of literature for Audible are Rosamund Pike, Dan Stevens, James Franco, Jesse Eisenberg, Jake Gyllenhaal, Kate Winslet and Tim Robbins. In 2013, Audible Studios won its first Grammy Award, for its production of Janis Ian’s memoir Society’s Child, and also won the Audie Award for Audiobook of the Year, for Colin Firth’s performance of Graham Greene’s The End of the Affair. Audible, the world’s largest seller and producer of downloadable audiobooks and other spoken-word content, invented and commercialized the first digital audio player in 1997, and has since been at the forefront of the explosively growing audiobook download segment. In 2015, listeners around the world downloaded 1.6 billion hours of audio from Audible.com outlets; Audible members downloaded an average of more than 17 books over the course of the year. Two thirds of new Audible members are first-time audiobook buyers. ABOUT AUDIBLE, INC. Audible, Inc., an Amazon.com, Inc. subsidiary (AMZN), is the leading provider of premium digital spoken audio information and entertainment, offering customers a new way to enhance and enrich their lives every day. Audible was created to unleash the emotive music in language and the habituating power and utility of verbal expression. Audible content includes more than 250,000 audio programs from leading audiobook publishers, broadcasters, entertainers, magazine and newspaper publishers, and business information providers. Audible is also the preeminent provider of spoken-word audio products for Apple’s iTunes Store.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160315005325/en/