Amazon Dash Button triples available brands, including new brands like Brawny, Charmin, Clorox, Doritos, Energizer, Gain, Honest Kids, L’Oreal Paris Revitalift, Lysol, Peet’s Coffee, Playtex, Purina, Red Bull, Seventh Generation, Slim Jim, Snuggle, Starbucks, Trojan, Vitamin Water, and more Dash Buttons are now available for new retail categories including snacks like chips and sunflower seeds, vitamins, office products, pet supplies, feminine care, batteries, and new beverage options like tea, soda, and juice Prime members increasingly use Dash Buttons to stay supplied with everyday essentials—Dash Button orders have grown by more than 75% in the last three months and now take place more than once a minute  SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- (AMZN)—One year after announcing Amazon Dash Button (www.amazon.com/dashbutton), Amazon today more than tripled the lineup of brands available to its Prime members through the program. Members can now choose from over 100 Dash Buttons representing top-name brands across dozens of retail categories and thousands of products. With Dash Buttons, Prime members never have to worry about running out of everyday household essentials from coffee to condoms, and snacks to soda. When a customer sees supplies running low, they simply press a Dash Button to order. "We’re thrilled with the positive response we’ve seen for Dash Buttons—and we heard loud and clear from customers that they wanted more brands, more categories, and more products in the program. We’re excited to now offer over 100 Dash Buttons representing top-name brands across dozens of retail categories and thousands of product options,” said Daniel Rausch, Director of Amazon Dash. "Prime members are using Dash Buttons at an increasing rate—over the last three months, Dash Button orders have grown by more than 75%. Customers are using Dash Buttons more than once a minute, helping ensure they never run out of their everyday essentials.” “PepsiCo is always looking for new and innovative ways for shoppers to engage with our brands…the Dash Button was one of those unique opportunities,” said David Orr, Global Customer Lead, PepsiCo. “We have been very pleased with shopper feedback and engagement since the launch and look forward to expanded learnings moving forward.” “Dash Button makes shopping easy, and fun. We’ve seen great engagement from our customers and are excited to bring more brands to the Dash Button lineup, including favorites like Lysol, Airborne and Air Wick,” said Taryn Mitchell, Global VP Digital Sales, RB. Dash Buttons are available to Prime members for $4.99 each, and they’re essentially free—with the first order through a Dash Button, members receive a $4.99 credit to their Amazon account. When a customer is running low on one of their everyday essentials, they can simply press a Dash Button to automatically reorder the item at the same low prices they find sold by Amazon online and with free Prime shipping. Customers receive a notification with every order and can change the product purchased through their Dash Button anytime. Prime members can order Dash Buttons at www.amazon.com/dashbutton. Prime members using Dash Button have shared the following: “I absolutely LOVE my Dash Buttons. My husband and I first bought two of them to try out (Tide Pods and toilet paper). A week later we bought three more (dishwasher detergent, paper towels, and trash bags). - Bethany M. ”As the soon-to-be new parent of twins, being able to order more wipes in a sleep deprived stupor without having to remember my login information seems pretty spectacular. First order arrived even sooner than expected.” - Joshua K. “Honestly, I love being able to just push the button when I get low on trash bags and a new box appears at my doorstep two days later. It couldn't be any easier than that.” - Christy P. “I’ve placed the Dash buttons where I normally place the toilet paper and cleaning products to remind me when to order the items. My girlfriend and I announce when we get the chance to press the button because we’re excited whenever we get the opportunity to press it…it’s fun and efficient.” - Pedro S. Starting today, Prime members can order the following new Dash Buttons: New Dash Buttons join last year’s lineup: About Amazon Amazon.com opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995. The company is guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. Customer reviews, 1-Click shopping, personalized recommendations, Prime, Fulfillment by Amazon, AWS, Kindle Direct Publishing, Kindle, Fire tablets, Fire TV, Amazon Echo, and Alexa are some of the products and services pioneered by Amazon. For more information, visit www.amazon.com/about.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160331005337/en/