Featuring Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., eBay and Nissan  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Business Wire announces the newest episode of BizWireTV, a weekly series covering trending news stories published over the newswire’s distribution network. The show spotlights stories on disruptive startups and technologies, entrepreneurs and funding announcements, hot business trends and companies to watch. This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160304005113/en/ This week’s episode features: AI-driven ‘Jottr Elect’ now available exclusively for iPhone. Tweet this! SoundHound Inc. launches Hound, the world’s most advanced voice search & assistant app. Tweet this! Nissan Europe and Foster + Partners unveil the future of fuel stations. Tweet this! With humility and respect, Starbucks (SBUX) turns its eye toward Italy. Tweet this! New games: Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon announced via Pokémon direct. Tweet this! Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK-A) releases highly anticipated annual report. Tweet this! Brita, Amazon (AMZN) team up to introduce first “smart” pitcher. Tweet this! Apple versus FBI leads discussion during the annual RSA conference for information security leaders and companies. Tweet this! Forbes releases 30th Annual World’s Billionaires Issue. Tweet this! Groupon (GRPN) sells one billionth Groupon. Tweet this! Skylanders (ATVI) and Autism Speaks partner for Autism Awareness Month with limited-edition toys. Tweet this! eBay (EBAY) teams with O, The Oprah Magazine to launch exclusive charity auction. Tweet this! A core component of the video programming is news-related data analysis powered by Business Wire’s NewsTrak reports and NUVI social media tracking. BizWireTV is hosted by Erin Ade. Watch for new episodes each Friday available on BizWireTV’s new home on Tempo. The weekly schedule for BizWireTV episodes: BizWireTV: Friday at 6:00am BizWireTV Accelerator Report: Sunday at 3:00pm Click here to share BizWireTV’s latest episode on Twitter: http://ctt.ec/1A58f About Business Wire Business Wire, a Berkshire Hathaway company, is the global leader in press release distribution and regulatory disclosure. Investor relations, public relations, public policy and marketing professionals rely on Business Wire to accurately distribute market-moving news and multimedia, host online newsrooms and IR websites, build content marketing platforms, generate social engagements and provide audience analysis that improves interaction with specified target markets. Founded in 1961, Business Wire is a trusted source for news organizations, journalists, investment professionals and regulatory authorities, delivering news directly into editorial systems and leading online news sources via its multi-patented simultaneous NX Network. Business Wire has 31 offices worldwide to securely meet the varying needs of communications professionals and news consumers. Learn more at BusinessWire.com and the BusinessWired blog; follow updates on Twitter: @businesswire or on Facebook. Click here to subscribe to Mobile Alerts for Business Wire.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160304005113/en/ MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160304005113/en/