Ally donates 3,000 new library books to Detroit Public Schools
Elementary and middle school libraries to receive 50 books on financial literacy concepts and skills
Ally Financial September 11, 2015 1:35 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
DETROIT, Sept. 11, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- In honor of local students going back to school this week, Ally Financial announced that it will be donating 3,000 new library books to schools in the Detroit Public School district. Elementary and middle school libraries throughout the district will receive 50 new books that focus on various financial literacy skills and concepts, with selections for pre-kindergarten through eighth grade reading levels.
View gallery
.
Ally's city-wide book donation kicked off at Spain Elementary-Middle School in Detroit this morning, where Ally volunteers hand-delivered the new books to the school. Volunteers also surprised all 650 students at Spain with additional school supplies, including pens, pencils, notebooks, scissors, extra paper and other necessities for their school year.
"Ally is honored to be donating to school libraries throughout Detroit, providing books that focus on real-world financial concepts and money skills that will help these students build a foundation of knowledge for the future," said Gina Proia, Ally chief communications officer and head of corporate citizenship. "As a new school year begins, we hope that Detroit students know that there is a strong community here that is supporting them and looking forward to their educational achievements."
Ally's book donation supports the company's overall commitment to advancing financial literacy and education, and furthers its efforts to support local Detroit students and youth through donations, school supply drives and volunteerism. Ally also provides financial literacy education for consumers across the country, offering free information on topics like budgeting, saving, auto financing, and banking and investing through its Wallet Wise financial literacy program.
About Ally Financial Inc.
Ally Financial Inc. ( ALLY ) is a leading automotive financial services company powered by a top direct banking franchise. Ally's automotive services business offers a full spectrum of financial products and services, including new and used vehicle inventory and consumer financing, leasing, vehicle service contracts, commercial loans and vehicle remarketing services, as well as a variety of insurance offerings, including inventory insurance, insurance consultative services for dealers and other ancillary products. Ally Bank, the company's direct banking subsidiary and member FDIC, offers an array of deposit products, including certificates of deposit, savings accounts, money market accounts, IRA deposit products and interest checking. Ally's Corporate Finance unit provides financing to middle-market companies across a broad range of industries.
With approximately $153.5 billion in assets as of March 31, 2015, Ally operates as a financial holding company. For more information, visit the Ally media site at http://media.ally.com  or follow Ally on Twitter: @Ally
Contact:
