Cash America Announces New Share Repurchase Authorization for up to 4 Million Shares
Cash America International, Inc. January 29, 2015 6:02 AM
?
Done
FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cash America International, Inc. ( CSH ) announced today that its  board of directors, at its regularly scheduled meeting, authorized the  repurchase of up to 4.0 million shares of the Company’s outstanding  common stock, par value $0.10 per share. The share repurchase  authorization does not have an expiration date, and the amount and  prices paid for any future share purchases under the new authorization  will be based on market conditions and other factors at the time of the  purchase. Repurchases under the share repurchase program will be made  through open market purchases or private transactions, in accordance  with applicable federal securities laws. This new authorization cancels  and replaces a previous authorization to purchase up to 2.5 million  shares of common stock, under which approximately 41% of the authorized  shares had been repurchased as of December 31, 2014.
Repurchased shares will be held as treasury stock for general corporate  purposes. As of December 31, 2014, there were approximately 29 million  shares of Cash America common stock issued and outstanding; therefore,  the new authorization represents approximately 14% of the currently  issued and outstanding shares of common stock.
In a separate release today, the Company also announced that its board  of directors increased the quarterly cash dividend to 5 cents per share  from 3.5 cents per share. The dividend will be payable on February 25,  2015 to shareholders of record on February 11, 2015. See the separate  press release for additional details.
About the Company
As of December 31, 2014 Cash America International, Inc. (the “Company”)  operated 943 total locations offering specialty financial services to  consumers, which included the following:
859 lending locations in 21 states in the United States primarily  under the names “Cash America Pawn,” “SuperPawn,” “Cash America Payday  Advance,” and “Cashland;” and
84 check cashing centers (all of which are unconsolidated franchised  check cashing centers) operating in 12 states in the United States  under the name “Mr. Payroll.”
For additional information regarding Cash America International, Inc.  visit its website located at www.cashamerica.com .
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private  Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release contains forward-looking statements about the business,  financial condition, operations and prospects of the Company. The actual  results of the Company could differ materially from those indicated by  the forward-looking statements because of various risks and  uncertainties including, without limitation: the effect of, compliance  with or changes in domestic pawn, consumer credit, tax and other laws  and governmental rules and regulations applicable to the Company's  business or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof; the  regulatory and examination authority of the Consumer Financial  Protection Bureau, including the effect of and compliance with a consent  order the Company entered into with the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau in November 2013; risks related to the separation of the Company  and Enova International, Inc.; a claim relating to the terms of the  Company’s 5.75% senior notes; the actions of third parties who provide,  acquire or offer products and services to, from or for the Company;  public and regulatory perception of the Company’s business, including  its consumer loan business and its business practices; the effect of any  current or future litigation proceedings or any judicial decisions or  rule-making that affect the Company, its products or its arbitration  agreements; fluctuations, including a sustained decrease, in the price  of gold or deterioration in economic conditions; a prolonged  interruption in the Company’s operations of its facilities, systems and  business functions, including its information technology and other  business systems; changes in demand for the Company’s services and  changes in competition; impairment risk related to the Company’s  goodwill and intangible assets; the Company’s ability to attract and  retain qualified executive officers; the ability of the Company to open  new locations in accordance with its plans or to successfully integrate  newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations; interest rate  fluctuations; changes in the capital markets, including the debt and  equity markets; changes in the Company’s ability to satisfy its debt  obligations or to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain new  capital to finance growth; security breaches, cyber-attacks or  fraudulent activity; acts of God, war or terrorism, pandemics and other  events; the effect of any of such changes on the Company’s business or  the markets in which it operates; and other risks and uncertainties  indicated in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission. These risks and uncertainties are beyond the ability of the  Company to control, nor can the Company predict, in many cases, all of  the risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to  differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking  statements. When used in this release, terms such as “believes,”  “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “plans,” “expects,”  “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “projects” and similar expressions  and variations as they relate to the Company or its management are  intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims  any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking  statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date  of this release.
Finance
