Done
FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cash America International, Inc. ( CSH ) (“Cash America”) announced  the successful completion of the spin-off of Enova International, Inc.  (“Enova”), which will begin “regular way” trading today on the New York  Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “ENVA.” Cash America’s  board of directors began evaluating strategic alternatives for the  possible separation of Enova in the spring of 2014, and in July it  announced its intent to pursue the spin-off of Enova into a separate  public company. The separation creates two companies oriented to serving  the capital needs of consumers through distinctively different business  models; one through a traditional storefront network and the other  solely through the internet.
Daniel R. Feehan, Chief Executive Officer and President of Cash America,  said, “Today we completed the strategic separation of two businesses in  a way that we believe will deliver superior long-term value to the  shareholders of Cash America. We acquired the business that is today  known as Enova in 2006 when it was a small online lender offering a  single product reporting nominal profits. Today, Enova is an innovative  diversified online business with over $800 million in revenue, based on  the trailing twelve months results ended September 30, 2014. Through the  use of advanced analytics and product development, Enova now offers a  wide variety of loan products in five foreign countries and the United  States.”
Mr. Feehan continued, “The foundation for the success of Enova was  generated through our appreciation for the need for small short-term  loans, which started with our traditional legacy storefront business  based in the U.S. known as Cash America Pawn. From the end of 2006, the  year Cash America acquired Enova, through September of this year, the  storefront secured lending business has grown from 487 locations to 948  locations and more than doubled its pawn loan balance outstanding from  $127 million to $264 million and remains the largest pawn loan company  in the United States in terms of loans outstanding. With a proud history  of successfully meeting the needs of its customers in a storefront  environment, Cash America will continue to be a leader in its industry  and set the standard for others to follow.”
At 12:01 a.m. Eastern Time today, each holder of Cash America common  stock received shares of Enova common stock at a rate of 0.915 shares  for each Cash America share owned as of November 3, 2014, which was the  record date for distribution. The distribution was issued in book entry  form only and no physical certificates were issued. Fractional shares of  Enova were not distributed, and Cash America shareholders will receive  cash in lieu of any fractional shares they would otherwise have been  entitled to receive in the distribution. Today’s distribution of Enova  qualifies as a tax-free distribution to shareholders of Cash America.
Cash America's common stock will continue to trade on the NYSE under the  ticker symbol “CSH.”
Cash America and Enova now operate as two independent companies. Cash  America retains ownership of 20% of Enova following today’s distribution.
About Cash America
As of September 30, 2014 Cash America International, Inc. (the  “Company”) operated 948 total locations offering specialty financial  services to consumers, which included the following:
863 lending locations in 21 states in the United States primarily  under the names “Cash America Pawn,” “SuperPawn,” “Cash America Payday  Advance,” and “Cashland”; and
85 check cashing centers (all of which are unconsolidated franchised  check cashing centers) operating in 12 states in the United States  under the name “Mr. Payroll.”
For additional information regarding Cash America International, Inc.  visit its website located at www.cashamerica.com .
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private  Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release contains forward-looking statements about the business,  financial condition, operations and prospects of the Company. The actual  results of the Company could differ materially from those indicated by  the forward-looking statements because of various risks and  uncertainties including, without limitation: the effect of, compliance  with or changes in domestic pawn, consumer credit, tax and other laws  and governmental rules and regulations applicable to the Company's  business or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof; the  regulatory and examination authority of the Consumer Financial  Protection Bureau, including the effect of and compliance with a consent  order the Company entered into with the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau in November 2013; risks related to the separation of the Company  and Enova; the Company’s ability to process or collect consumer loans  through the Automated Clearing House system; the actions of third  parties who provide, acquire or offer products and services to, from or  for the Company; public and regulatory perception of the Company’s  business, including its consumer loan business and its business  practices; the effect of any current or future litigation proceedings or  any judicial decisions or rule-making that affect the Company, its  products or its arbitration agreements; fluctuations, including a  sustained decrease, in the price of gold or deterioration in economic  conditions; a prolonged interruption in the Company’s operations of its  facilities, systems and business functions, including its information  technology and other business systems; changes in demand for the  Company’s services and changes in competition; the Company’s ability to  maintain an allowance or liability for estimated losses on consumer  loans that are adequate to absorb credit losses; the Company’s ability  to attract and retain qualified executive officers; the ability of the  Company to open new locations in accordance with its plans or to  successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into the Company’s  operations; interest rate fluctuations; changes in the capital markets,  including the debt and equity markets; changes in the Company’s ability  to satisfy its debt obligations or to refinance existing debt  obligations or obtain new capital to finance growth; security breaches,  cyber-attacks or fraudulent activity; acts of God, war or terrorism,  pandemics and other events; the effect of any of such changes on the  Company’s business or the markets in which it operates; and other risks  and uncertainties indicated in the Company’s filings with the Securities  and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties are beyond the  ability of the Company to control, nor can the Company predict, in many  cases, all of the risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual  results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking  statements. When used in this release, terms such as “believes,”  “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “plans,” “expects,”  “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “projects” and similar expressions  and variations as they relate to the Company or its management are  intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims  any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking  statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date  of this release.
Finance
