Cash America Announces Extension of Chief Executive Officer’s Employment and Appointment of President
Cash America International, Inc. April 6, 2015 4:05 PM
?
Done
FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cash America International, Inc. (the “Company”) ( CSH ) announced       today that its President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel R. Feehan,       has agreed to continue serving as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer       until October 31, 2015. In July 2014, the Company announced that Mr.       Feehan was planning to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer       of the Company on April 30, 2015. Mr. Feehan has also agreed to remain       employed by the Company until April 30, 2020 to serve in a non-officer       advisory role following his retirement from the role of Chief Executive       Officer. Mr. Feehan will remain on the Company's Board of Directors       following his retirement on October 31, 2015 and will serve as Executive       Chairman of the Board from November 1, 2015 through October 31, 2016 and       then will serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board from November       1, 2016 through April 30, 2020, subject to his re-election to the       Company’s Board each year by the Company’s shareholders. Jack Daugherty,       the Company’s founder and current Chairman of the Board, will continue       to serve as Chairman until November 1, 2015, at which time he will step       down as Chairman but will continue to serve on the Board.
“I am pleased to continue my service as Chief Executive Officer for an       additional six months while the Board’s search committee completes the       succession planning process and names a successor Chief Executive       Officer, which is expected to occur during that timeframe. I am also       honored that the Board has asked for me to serve for an additional       twelve months as Executive Chairman, which will allow me to take an       active role in assisting and mentoring my successor during an important       transition period,” said Feehan.
The Company’s Board of Directors is also pleased to announce that T.       Brent Stuart, the Company’s current Executive Vice President and Chief       Operating Officer, will assume the role of President and Chief Operating       Officer of the Company effective as of May 1, 2015. At that time, Mr.       Feehan will step down as the Company’s President, but he will continue       to serve as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. In his role as       President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Stuart will continue to       oversee the Company’s operations and will assume the additional       responsibilities of overseeing the Company’s marketing, human resources       and information technology functions. Mr. Stuart has served as the       Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since       January 2015, as the Senior Vice President – Operations for the       Company’s U.S. retail services storefront lending business from July       2010 to January 2015 and as Regional Vice President from November 2008       to July 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Stuart held various       senior leadership roles in the financial services industry.
Commenting on the promotion of Mr. Stuart to President and Chief       Operating Officer, Feehan said, “Brent Stuart has been an effective and       respected leader in our field operations having advanced quickly since       joining the Company in 2008. His keen understanding of our business       fundamentals and proven ability for successfully implementing key       initiatives throughout our large field organization sets him apart from       other leaders I have encountered in our industry. Expanding his       leadership responsibilities today will aid in his development and bring       important value to our Company.”
About the Company
As of December 31, 2014 the Company operated 943 total locations       offering specialty financial services to consumers, which included the       following:
859 lending locations in 21 states in the United States primarily         under the names “Cash America Pawn,” “SuperPawn,” “Cash America Payday         Advance,” and “Cashland;” and
84 check cashing centers (all of which are unconsolidated franchised         check cashing centers) operating in 12 states in the United States         under the name “Mr. Payroll.”
For additional information regarding Cash America International, Inc.       visit its website located at www.cashamerica.com .
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private       Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release contains forward-looking statements about the business,       financial condition, operations and prospects of the Company. The actual       results of the Company could differ materially from those indicated by       the forward-looking statements because of various risks and       uncertainties including, without limitation: the effect of, compliance       with or changes in laws, rules and regulations applicable to the       Company's business or changes in the interpretation or enforcement       thereof; the regulatory and examination authority of the Consumer       Financial Protection Bureau, including the effect of and compliance with       a consent order the Company entered into with the Consumer Financial       Protection Bureau in November 2013; accounting and income tax risks       related to goodwill and other intangible asset impairment, certain tax       positions taken by the Company and other accounting matters that require       the judgment of management; the Company’s ability to attract and retain       qualified executive officers, including a new Chief Executive Officer       upon the retirement of the Company’s current Chief Executive Officer;       decreased demand for the Company’s products and services and changes in       competition; fluctuations in the price of gold and changes in economic       conditions; public perception of the Company’s business and the       Company’s business practices; risks related to the Company’s financing,       such as compliance with financial covenants in the Company’s debt       agreements, the Company’s ability to satisfy its outstanding debt       obligations, to refinance existing debt obligations or to obtain new       capital; the effect of any current or future litigation proceedings,       including a claim relating to the terms of the Company’s 5.75% senior       notes, and any judicial decisions or rule-making that affects the       Company, its products or the legality or enforceability of its       arbitration agreements; risks related to interruptions to the Company’s       business operations, such as a prolonged interruption in the Company’s       operations of its facilities, systems or business functions,       cyber-attacks or security breaches or the actions of third parties who       provide, acquire or offer products and services to, from or for the       Company; risks related to the expansion and growth of the Company’s       business, including the Company’s ability to open new locations in       accordance with plans or to successfully integrate newly acquired       businesses into its operations; risks related to the 2014 spin-off of       the Company’s former E-Commerce Division that comprised its e-commerce       segment, Enova International, Inc.; fluctuations in the price of the       Company’s common stock; the effect of any of the above changes on the       Company’s business or the markets in which the Company operates; and       other risks and uncertainties indicated in the Company’s filings with       the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties       are beyond the ability of the Company to control, nor can the Company       predict, in many cases, all of the risks and uncertainties that could       cause its actual results to differ materially from those indicated by       the forward-looking statements. When used in this release, terms such as       “believes,” “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “plans,” “expects,”       “intends,” “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “projects” and similar       expressions and variations as they relate to the Company or its       management are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The       Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any       forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring       after the date of this release.
Chief Executive Officer
