Cash America Announces Dividend Increase and Declares Quarterly Dividend
Cash America International, Inc. January 29, 2015 6:01 AM
?
Done
FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cash America International, Inc. ( CSH ) reported today that the  Board of Directors, at its regularly scheduled quarterly meeting,  increased the cash dividend amount to $0.05 (5 cents) per share on  common stock outstanding. The newly declared dividend represents a 43%  increase in the Company’s previous quarterly dividend of $0.035 (3.5  cents) per share paid each quarter since the first quarter of 2007. The  Company has consistently paid a quarterly dividend since 1989. The  dividend will be paid at the close of business on February 25, 2015 to  shareholders of record on February 11, 2015.
Commenting on the board’s decision, Daniel R. Feehan, President and  Chief Executive Officer said, “We are pleased to provide our  shareholders with this increase in our quarterly cash dividend, which  demonstrates our efforts to provide shareholders with a regular cash  return based on the healthy cash flow generating capability of their  Company.”
In a separate release today, the Company also announced that the board  of directors approved a new open market share repurchase authorization  for up to 4 million shares of the Company’s common stock. See the  separate press release for additional details.
About the Company
As of December 31, 2014 Cash America International, Inc. (the “Company”)  operated 943 total locations offering specialty financial services to  consumers, which included the following:
859 lending locations in 21 states in the United States primarily  under the names “Cash America Pawn,” “SuperPawn,” “Cash America Payday  Advance,” and “Cashland;” and
84 check cashing centers (all of which are unconsolidated franchised  check cashing centers) operating in 12 states in the United States  under the name “Mr. Payroll.”
For additional information regarding Cash America International, Inc.  visit its website located at www.cashamerica.com .
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private  Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release contains forward-looking statements about the business,  financial condition, operations and prospects of the Company. The actual  results of the Company could differ materially from those indicated by  the forward-looking statements because of various risks and  uncertainties including, without limitation: the effect of, compliance  with or changes in domestic pawn, consumer credit, tax and other laws  and governmental rules and regulations applicable to the Company's  business or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof; the  regulatory and examination authority of the Consumer Financial  Protection Bureau, including the effect of and compliance with a consent  order the Company entered into with the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau in November 2013; risks related to the separation of the Company  and Enova International, Inc.; a claim relating to the terms of the  Company’s 5.75% senior notes; the actions of third parties who provide,  acquire or offer products and services to, from or for the Company;  public and regulatory perception of the Company’s business, including  its consumer loan business and its business practices; the effect of any  current or future litigation proceedings or any judicial decisions or  rule-making that affect the Company, its products or its arbitration  agreements; fluctuations, including a sustained decrease, in the price  of gold or deterioration in economic conditions; a prolonged  interruption in the Company’s operations of its facilities, systems and  business functions, including its information technology and other  business systems; changes in demand for the Company’s services and  changes in competition; impairment risk related to the Company’s  goodwill and intangible assets; the Company’s ability to attract and  retain qualified executive officers; the ability of the Company to open  new locations in accordance with its plans or to successfully integrate  newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations; interest rate  fluctuations; changes in the capital markets, including the debt and  equity markets; changes in the Company’s ability to satisfy its debt  obligations or to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain new  capital to finance growth; security breaches, cyber-attacks or  fraudulent activity; acts of God, war or terrorism, pandemics and other  events; the effect of any of such changes on the Company’s business or  the markets in which it operates; and other risks and uncertainties  indicated in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission. These risks and uncertainties are beyond the ability of the  Company to control, nor can the Company predict, in many cases, all of  the risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to  differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking  statements. When used in this release, terms such as “believes,”  “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “plans,” “expects,”  “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “projects” and similar expressions  and variations as they relate to the Company or its management are  intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims  any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking  statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date  of this release.
Finance
