Done
NEW YORK & DALLAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ) cit.com ,       a leading provider of commercial lending and leasing services, today       announced that CIT       Healthcare Finance served as Sole Lead Arranger, Sole Bookrunner and       Administrative Agent in a $47 million incremental senior secured credit       facility to support Epic Health Services’ acquisition of Option1. Epic       is a portfolio company of Webster Capital. Financing was provided by CIT       Bank N.A. , the principal bank subsidiary of CIT. Terms of the       transaction were not disclosed.
This is the fourth transaction that CIT has led for Epic Health Services       (Epic) and complements the $210 million senior secured credit facility       provided by CIT in support of Epic’s acquisition of Loving Care Agency       in March 2015.
“Option1’s primarily pediatric patient base is highly complementary to       Epic’s core business. The acquisition strengthens our presence in three       states and adds three new states to our geographic footprint, creating a       pediatric home healthcare business with national scale and significant       market density,” said Chris Roussos, Chief Executive Officer, Epic       Health Services. “We appreciate having the partnership with CIT in       pursuit of our growth objectives. Together, Option1 and Epic will serve       approximately 26,000 patients across 15 states.”
William       Douglass , Group Head and Managing Director, CIT Healthcare Finance,       said, “CIT and Epic have built a strong relationship during the years we       have been working together. Epic has been very thoughtful in their       growth strategy, and we look forward to working with them as they       continue to build the business.”
Will       Duke , Managing Director, CIT Healthcare Finance, said, “Option1 is a       premier enteral therapy platform with an impressive track record of       growth, extensive referral network and outstanding reputation for       quality of care. The acquisition of Option1 strongly complements Epic’s       current lines of business and positions the Company for continued       penetration of new markets in the future.”
Based in Dallas, Texas, Epic is a leading provider of pediatric home       health and therapy services, as well as behavioral/mental and adult       in-home services. Headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona, Option1 is the       largest independent provider of enteral nutrition therapy products and       services in the U.S., serving over 6,000 clients across six states.       Enteral nutrition therapy is the administration of nutrients directly       into the gastrointestinal tract through a feeding tube.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About Epic Health Services
Epic Health Services provides pediatric home healthcare. Epic’s services       are designed to provide a high quality, lower cost alternative to       prolonged hospitalization for medically fragile and chronically ill       children from birth through age 21. Their pediatric nursing services       consist primarily of private duty home nursing care for pediatric       patients with illnesses and conditions, such as digestive and absorptive       diseases, congenital heart defects and other cardiovascular disorders,       cancer, cerebral palsy, obstructive and restrictive pulmonary disease,       orthopedic conditions and post-surgical needs. epichealthservices.com
About Webster Capital
Webster Capital provides equity financing, expertise and a broad contact       network for management buyouts and growth capital. Webster Capital is a       preferred partner for well-managed smaller companies with unrealized       growth potential. The Webster Team works closely with ownership and       management to effect a smooth transition and to achieve growth while       maintaining company values and culture. webstercapital.com
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151006005148/en/
Mergers, Acquisitions & Takeovers
