CIT Announces Departure of CFO Scott Parker
CIT Group Inc. October 19, 2015 4:35 PM
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ), a leading provider of commercial lending and       leasing services, today announced that Scott T. Parker, Executive Vice       President and Chief Financial Officer, will leave the Company in       November to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial       Officer of Springleaf Holdings, Inc. ( LEAF ).
John       A. Thain , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, “Scott has       been an important member of the CIT senior leadership team and has       played a central role in the financial restructuring of CIT. He led our       efforts to improve our liability structure as we successfully eliminated       or refinanced approximately $31 billion of high-cost debt and was       instrumental in our efforts to return approximately $1.7 billion to       investors. In addition, he worked with the team to improve our       commercial franchises, as well as oversaw the exits of our non-strategic       portfolios over the past five years. On behalf of our Board of       Directors, shareholders and employees I thank Scott for his dedication       and commitment to CIT and wish him continued success in his future       endeavors.”
Parker joined CIT in July 2010 and has served as the Company’s Principal       Financial Officer overseeing all financial operations including the       Accounting, Planning, Tax, Treasury and Investor Relations departments.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151019006603/en/
CIT Group Inc
