CIT Announces Strategic Initiatives Designed to Further Its Transition to a U.S. Commercial Bank
Exploring Strategic Alternatives for $10 Billion Commercial Air Business
Exploring Sale of CIT Canada and CIT China Businesses
CIT Group Inc. 22 hours ago
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ), a leading provider of commercial lending and       leasing services, today announced a series of strategic initiatives that       are designed to advance the Company’s transition to a U.S. Commercial       Bank. The Company announced that it would explore strategic alternatives       for its $10 billion Commercial Air business, and sell its CIT Canada and       CIT China businesses.
“Over the past five years we have made significant progress in       transforming CIT,” said John       A. Thain , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “Following the       completion of our OneWest Bank acquisition, we have decided to explore       the strategic alternatives for our Commercial Air business and to sell       our non-transportation-related businesses in Canada and China. These       strategic initiatives will position CIT for long-term success by further       simplifying our bank-centric business model as we focus on meeting the       financing needs of our U.S. small business and middle market customers.       We believe these decisions will increase shareholder value.”
CIT maintains one of the leading commercial air franchises in the world       with one of the youngest and most technologically advanced fleets. It       owns, finances and manages a fleet of more than 350 commercial aircraft       serving approximately 100 customers in 50 countries. It provides leasing       and financing packages, including operating leases and structuring and       advisory services, for commercial airlines worldwide.
These announcements will further advance CIT’s efforts to simplify and       realign its business model and will substantially complete its exit from       its international businesses.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151021006664/en/
OneWest Bank
