SAF Capital Delivers Letter to Cash America International, Inc. Board of Directors
SAF Capital Management LLC March 6, 2015 2:03 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
CHICAGO, March 6, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- In response to inquiries from Cash America International, Inc. ("the Company" or "Cash America") shareholders and various market participants, SAF Capital Management LLC today released its letter delivered to Cash America's Board of Directors on January 27th, 2015.  
Believes the restructured Cash America, with its leading market position, steady free cash flows, underleveraged capital structure and de-risked operating model is drastically undervalued on a cash-flow, asset value, replacement value or private ownership basis.
 
Based on discussions with various market participants,  believes there are multiple parties interested in acquiring Cash America in a "take-private" transaction, however,  maintains its view that the Company can generate higher returns for shareholders via an aggressive public recapitalization.
 
Appreciates the constructive dialogue and subsequent adjustments made to Cash America's stated capital allocation policy, however, believes— based on analysis of Cash America equity and debt trading activity— the Company is not sufficiently taking advantage of the current fleeting opportunity to create shareholder value via open market share repurchases.
 
Holds a significant ownership stake in Cash America, while hedging remaining regulatory and industry-specific exposure via direct and derivative positions in industry peers.
 
The full text of the letter follows:
 
 
Dear Board Members,
As a long-time shareholder of Cash America International, Inc. ("the Company" or "Cash America" or "CSH"), SAF Capital Management LLC ("We" or "SAF") has maintained a constructive dialogue with Company leadership over the past two years.   In the spirit of that dialogue, the purpose of this letter is to summarize recent communications with Company leadership,  and serve as a discussion piece for the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and long-term Cash America shareholders.
Based on our discussions with various market participants, we believe there are multiple parties that would be interested in acquiring Cash America and/or its Enova International Inc. subsidiary ("Enova") in a "take-private" transaction.  Although we believe the Company's equity trades at a modest discount based strictly on normalized earnings, we feel the Company is drastically undervalued on a cash-flow, asset value, replacement value or private ownership basis.  The following characteristics make Cash America a uniquely attractive target for private ownership and suggest the Company is deeply undervalued:
1.)   The Company's 20% ownership stake in Enova must be liquidated by November 13, 2016, and this monetization will provide tremendous pre-tax cash flows to the company.  We believe this timeline is misunderstood by most market participants, who assume the Company will hold its Enova stake for five-years post-divestiture.
The relatively near-term liquidation of the Company's 20% Enova stake should generate significant pre-tax capital gains that can be distributed to shareholders.  Having spoken with both buy-side and sell-side analysts covering the Company as well as many of its largest shareholders, we believe the market has largely missed the fact that the Company must liquidate its 20% stake in Enova within the next 22 months. Many market participants are valuing the Company assuming the Enova stake will be monetized at the end of a five-year period, as this is traditionally the timeframe guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service in such transactions. However, in this instance, Cash America received a private letter ruling that directed the Company to liquidate its Enova stake within 24-months post-transaction in order to protect the tax-free nature of the Enova divestiture.  Dan Feehan, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, briefly mentioned this timeframe in a recent Company conference call, but, we believe nearly all market participants missed this critical piece of information.  (One analyst stated to SAF that Mr. Feehan likely "misspoke," and the timing was "certainly five years out.")  Using the current market price of the Enova stake as a pre-tax liquidation value, in combination with management's 2015 EBITDA guidance as a run-rate,  the Company could generate upwards of $400MM in pre-tax capital gains and EBITDA over the next 24 months, which represents over 65% of the Company's current market capitalization. We believe these assumptions may be conservative, particularly because we feel that although Enova's stock price may experience significant volatility in the months around the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's ("CFPB") expected upcoming regulatory announcement regarding short-term-single-payment ("STSP") lending, its value will likely increase over the 20-month time period after  the market digests the new regulatory framework and Enova's pilot operational initiatives begin to gain traction.
2.)   The newly restructured Cash America has a leading market position—the largest pawn operator in the United States (by pawn loan volume)—and produces cash flows with enviable robustness and stability. Potential acquirers see the opportunity to purchase a Company with these favorable characteristics at a suppressed multiple, due to the market's lingering misconceptions regarding the Company's exposure to regulatory and other risk factors.
The retail pawn business "pure play" model is attractive due to its inherent insusceptibility to technological obsolescence and "consumer fad" risk, and the Company's strategic reorganization—which SAF advocated for—has categorically addressed the primary risk factors previously faced by the company:  
Restructuring creates de-risked Operating Company
Pre-restructuring Risk Factor
Post-restructuring status
Regulatory Exposure
Dramatically reduced by the spin-off of Enova subsidiary. Further mitigated via the de-emphasizing of  STSP lending at CSH retail locations. Cash America discontinued STSP lending at 188 retail locations since Sept. 2013, announced plans to discontinue STSP at 160+ additional locations by end of Q1 2015). STSP
Currency risk/Foreign Government Complications
Shutdown of Mexico operations results in 100% domestic footprint, no foreign currency risk, simplified US-only government oversight.
Exposure to Gold Prices
Shift in retail strategy to emphasize 'over-the-counter' sales versus scrap channel disposition and increased emphasis on non-jewelry retail sales reduces impact of gold price fluctuations.
Despite these changes, Cash America currently trades at a valuation multiple in-line with companies bearing relatively large levels of exposure to the aforementioned risks, and Cash America's stock price often swings wildly in reaction to news headlines regarding upcoming regulatory developments from the CFPB.  The reality is that Cash America is forecasted to generate less than 10% of its 2015 revenue from the type of STSP lending activity that is expected to be subject to potential upcoming regulation. To our knowledge, the CFPB has signaled no intention to regulate pawn lending, likely due to the nature of the pawn lending model, which avoids many of the worrisome characteristics of STSP loans.  This non-recourse secured lending model—with its simplicity, lack of collection activities and avoidance of customer "debt cycle" concerns—has been subject to no material changes in federal regulation in over 30 years.
Cash flows generated via retail pawn operations should trade at a market premium, as they are generally more stable and robust than the cash generated by other alternative lending businesses, and compare favorably in terms of demand stability relative to most consumer-facing industries.  Cash America's closest competitor, First Cash Financial Services Inc. ("First Cash" or "FCFS"), enjoys a market multiple of nearly 12 times TEV/EBITDA, versus Cash America's 6.2 times TEV/EBITDA1.  Although some of this valuation gap can be explained by FCFS' stronger growth rates and operational efficiency, we believe this near 100% valuation premium is largely due to market misconceptions regarding Cash America's regulatory risk as well as frustration among institutional investors with Cash America's shareholder-unfriendly capital allocation policies.
1 To better compare the market value of the two company's retail operations, in this calculation, Cash America's 20% stake in Enova is treated as a cash equivalent, valued at the 1/15/2015 closing price of Enova stock. Notwithstanding the fact that this assumption excludes likely tax liabilities that would be expected to be incurred at the time of the Enova stock sale transaction, we feel this value calculation will prove to be conservative, as the Enova stock will likely appreciate over the next 22 months. Without this adjustment, Cash America's EV/EBITDA multiple is 7.2.
3.)   After years of capital-intensive expansion, there is room for significant profit margin expansion throughout Cash America's operating model.
A strategic buyer should be able to acquire Cash America and quickly remove both corporate and store-level costs, thus driving rapid profit margin expansion.  Under present management, initiatives are currently underway to reduce corporate-level costs and to shift storefront employee costs towards an increasingly variable, performance-based compensation system.   As the company transitions out of its rapid growth-via-acquisition phase, we feel it is appropriate for operating efficiency to be a primary Company focus.  Our view that further significant costs can be removed from Cash America's retail locations is supported by examining the Company's competitors.  For example, First Cash Financial Services, Inc. has averaged SG&A costs of 36% of revenues (versus Cash America's 46%), while maintaining superior store-level performance as measured by gross margins on merchandise sales (FCFS 39% vs Cash America's 28%) and nearly all efficiency ratios. (Management has provided guidance that the recent slowdown in inventory turnover ratios is an intentional component of a strategy to improve the retail shopping experience. It is likely too soon to gauge if this will lead to improved overall profitability).  First Cash's, as well as fellow competitor EZCORP, Inc.'s,  operating metrics maintain their edge, even after adjusting for geographical and inventory mix.  We believe these examples validate the thesis that meaningful decreases to store-level expense can be achieved without compromising retail performance.  We are concerned that the current unnecessary costs in the system hide the true cash flow potential of the Company, and may allow an opportunistic buyer to purchase the Company at a discount to its true value.
4.)   By even the most conservative analysis, Cash America maintains a significantly underleveraged capital structure. 
The Company has ample room to safely increase its leverage without bumping into the current covenant restrictions on its outstanding bonds, and these covenants themselves are too restrictive given the newly restructured "pawn pure play" nature of the business.  We feel the current capital structure is inappropriate given CSH's operational cash flow, with long-term debt levels presently more than $100MM below the EBITDA/Long-term Debt ratios described as "comfortable" by the Company's Chief Financial Officer in 2013.  Although a private buyer would likely swap-out any outstanding debt contracts, we believe there are many iterative steps that the Company could take to accomplish the same results via a public recapitalization – even while remaining in compliance with the temporary covenants recently added to the Company's Credit Agreement.
Were Cash America to entertain a go-private bid and/or initiate a formal sales process at this juncture, we believe the aforementioned regulatory confusion, coupled with potential tax complications (if said process were to commence within 6-months of the Enova divestiture), would result in bids that do not reflect the true value of Cash America. In our view, Cash America can achieve a sustainably higher market valuation by instead concentrating efforts towards tightening existing operations and returning excess capital to shareholders.
We feel that if the Board takes the analysis contained in this letter into consideration, and executes against these items in a timely manner, the Company will generate share price appreciation far greater than the standard, "market price + control premium" acquisition offers that the company would likely receive in its current condition and regulatory circumstances.
Consistent with our previous communications with the Board, we feel Cash America is in urgent need of a broad-based, analytics-driven, capital allocation methodology.  As a minimum threshold to receiving approval, this disciplined approach would require that the projected risk-adjusted returns, for all material capital expenditures, significantly exceed the relative return available through Company share repurchases. Having studied the Company's capital deployment history, we can only conclude that many investment decisions were made in isolation, in a "silo," with only the expected absolute returns of each individual investment taken into consideration, rather than a relative analysis comparing each expenditure's projected returns against the returns available by simply repurchasing Cash America shares from the open market.  If implemented at present, the application of this allocation methodology would lead to an immediate cessation of external store acquisitions, a discontinuance of debt extinguishment and the commencement of a valuation-based share buyback program as detailed below.
The Company should cease external store acquisitions and instead focus on increasing per share ownership of its own severely mispriced assets:
Although we appreciate the potential benefit of a "land grab" acquisition strategy, by virtually any metric, the Company's overall growth-via-store-acquisition tactic has been ineffective in generating shareholder returns.   In the last decade2, the Company has spent roughly $650,000,000 of shareholder capital—an amount that exceeds the current market capitalization of the company—to purchase existing retail stores from its competitors, paying an average price of $1.72 MM per store (and a significantly higher $2.3MM per location for domestic pawn shops).  The end result of these massive capital expenditures is a market capitalization that is nearly 20% lower than it was in December of 2004—a full decade ago.  If we strip away the current market value of the Company's 20% Enova stake, we see that the current standalone retail business' enterprise value is over 30% lower than it was in 2004.  Simply put, spending $650 MM in shareholder capital on external store acquisitions has yielded dramatically negative returns for shareholders and its continuance cannot be justified.
2 This time period represents a particularly good point-of-reference for comparison, as the operations of the Company in 2004 were domestically focused and the Company had not yet acquired its online lending division, thus providing for a reasonable apples-to-apples comparison to today's business operations.  However, the same calculations applied against any timeframe since the Company's inception yield similar results, after adjusting for Enova's economic impact.
The data contained in the following table highlights the current valuation disconnect between the market price of Cash America equity and the replacement value of its assets.  Cash America receives less market value per pawn location than any of its competitors.  For example, First Cash Financial Services Inc.—the only other publicly-traded "pawn store pure play"—has a Total Enterprise Value ("TEV") of  $1.73MM per location, whereas Cash America's TEV currently trades between $760K-$915K per location, depending on how one values Cash America's Enova stake. Some CSH locations that the Company classifies as "pawn stores" function primarily as consumer lending operations and therefore deserve lower valuations; however, even if we adjust the Company-issued store count data to assign zero value to pawn locations in which consumer lending is a primary revenue driver, and also assign zero value to the company's 85 Cash Checking locations, we see that at most CSH is receiving  between $1.0MM – $1.1MM in TEV per "pure pawn" location, which is roughly 50% less the average acquisition price paid for such locations, and 40% less than the market value attributed to First Cash Financial's pawn stores. We believe this data demonstrates the irrationality of continuing external store acquisitions at a time when the Company's currently-owned stores can be purchased at a steep discount pro rata via Company stock repurchases:
External Store Acquisitions Yield Negative Returns
11/30/2004
