309,740 Unique Visitors Recorded for First Over the Top Livestream With Phil Vassar
WhereverTV and Digital RodeoTV Successfully Test OTT InternetTV Platform of Live Performance
WhereverTV Broadcasting Corporation October 12, 2015 10:47 AM
Content preferences
Done
PITTSBURGH, Oct.  12, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- WhereverTV Broadcasting Corp. ( TVTV ), an emerging leader in delivering Over the Top (OTT) live-streaming music events and subscription television services to internet connected devices announced today the results of its first full WhereverTV/Digital Rodeo livestream concert event. On October 2 from The Ranch Concert Hall & Saloon in Fort Myers, FL, WhereverTV and Digital Rodeo broadcasted the live concert on the WhereverTV OTT platform. Under its recently announced CDN agreement with Akamai Technologies, Inc. ( AKAM ), the global leader in Content Delivery Network services, the results totaled 309,740 unique visitors that watched it either on their browser or mobile devices.
“Our goals are to help redefine the fan and artist experience. As we continue to make revolutionary and evolutionary advancements with our technology, we will only help strengthen the relationships with our audiences and with our artists,” said Edward D. Ciofani, CEO of WhereverTV. “And these results were well beyond expectations. Working with Phil Vassar and The Ranch was truly a great experience producing fantastic results for all involved. While we continue to gain interest from the music industry and expand musician’s audiences on a new platform, we also feel we are growing shareholder value,” he added.
“It was so great to be a part of this ground breaking event. We are here because of our fans and it is exciting to have new avenues like this one where fans all over the world can interact with us,” said Phil Vassar.
Phil Vassar is a multi-talented singer songwriter of considerable depth and substance. He is a passionate vocalist and a piano player, who has 8 critically-acclaimed albums, was ACM Top New Male Vocalist, 2 time ASCAP Songwriter of the Year, Billboard Country Songwriter of the Year, and received a Daytime Emmy nomination for “Outstanding Original Song”. He has 10 Number 1s, 15 Top 10s, 26 top 40s. Phil has a strong social media fan base with followers spanning 45+ countries on 6 continents.
Amy Millslagle, a member of Phil Vassar’s management team stated, ”We were exceptionally pleased with the process and the results. The analytics available from this type of event is astounding and will help us better communicate with and serve our fans in the future.”
As reported on May 11, WhereverTV and Digital Rodeo is a partnership that intends establishment of a country music network to distribute music and music video content from independent country artists, including current and legacy artists. Digital Rodeo TV also intends to broadcast interviews, and live streaming and recorded concert events.
For more background information about WhereverTV, please click: Internet TV , Over the Top , WhereverTV , or OTC Markets .
Or contact:
Email: pr@wherever.tv
About WhereverTV Broadcasting Corporation ( TVTV )
Founded in 2007, WhereverTV is the next generation subscription television service providing consumers with live-streaming, genre-specific, and in-language viewing choices from around the world, delivered to anywhere in the world, and through any internet enabled device. Programming is identical to existing broadcast and distribution providers with the only differences being that the broadcast signals are accessed through the internet via an over the top (OTT) platform, and channel management is handled by company’s patented Interactive Program Guide (IPG) technology. WhereverTV provides an economically beneficial and completely versatile alternative to traditional cable and satellite services, with the added benefits of personalization and portability. Also known as Internet TV , WhereverTV delivers these same channels, shows and events to SmartTVs and digital media receivers including: GoogleTV, AppleTV, Roku, Amazon FireTV, iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, Droid Smartphone, and TabletPCs. The WhereverTV platform enables subscribers to access licensed and free-to-air content across these devices with the IPG across unlimited geographies, and wherever there is internet connectivity. The customer viewing experiences are based on customer location (geo-targeting) and content-rights management (subscriptions). Current in-language subscription offerings include Arabic TV, French TV, Italian TV, and Moroccan TV. Current genre specific subscriptions include NEWS channels, faith based channels and more.  Apps are presently available for free in App Stores for iOS (Apple), Android, GoogleTV and Amazon FireTV devices. DVR functionality to record your shows and view later is presently in the works. Licensed US TV content subscriptions will be available in 2015. Please visit: www.wherever.tv , for more info.
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which may not be based on historical facts. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results events or developments to be materially different from any future results, events or developments expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors should be considered carefully and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future results, events or developments.
Phil Vassar
