Content preferences
Done
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Sept. 9, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- At IBC 2015 , Akamai Technologies, Inc. ( AKAM ), the global leader in content delivery network (CDN) services, will demonstrate how its solutions can help broadcasters deliver broadcast-quality video over the Internet to growing audiences who are demanding flawless experiences across devices. Akamai will exhibit on IBC stand 6.A15, Sept. 11-15, at the RAI Exhibition and Conference Center in Amsterdam.
View photo
.
Akamai's solutions are intended to help content providers and aggregators evolve their over-the-top (OTT) strategies by streamlining and scaling end-to-end workflows for the expanding range of streaming video business models. Whether transactional or advertising supported, content providers can benefit from Akamai's purpose-built solutions, including live and on-demand workflow services, best-in-class CDN and server-side monetization capabilities layered with in-depth analytics.
Members of Akamai's executive team, subject matter experts and select digital media ecosystem partners will be present to show how video quality and service scalability, cloud-based workflows and technology advancements can help content providers more efficiently address consumer adoption of and demand for broadcast-quality online video content and services.   
Akamai demonstrations at IBC 2015 will center upon:
Live Workflow Services: Akamai's new live video feed contribution over IP technology is designed to dramatically reduce costs compared to legacy satellite or fiber solutions at comparable quality and reliability. Akamai will demonstrate how its new accelerated ingest capability enables broadcast-quality video streams, including 4K, to be delivered reliably across the Internet, and how its cloud-based workflow services such as content packaging can mitigate the challenges of managing disparate technologies while ensuring high-quality OTT viewing experiences.
On-Demand Workflow Services: Reducing cost and simplifying the process of preparing, securing, storing and publishing online video, Akamai's On-Demand Workflow Services are pre-integrated with leading workflow management tools such as Aspera Orchestrator, allowing content to be quickly uploaded, transcoded and packaged into prominent formats for broadcast-quality delivery.
Media Delivery Services: Working in conjunction with Akamai Adaptive Media Delivery, Akamai's new acceleration technology extends Akamai's Intelligent Edge onto connected devices and into homes, employing hybrid HTTP/UDP protocols to improve quality and reliability for live and on-demand delivery of HLS, RTMP, MPEG-TS and other online video formats.
Advertising Services: Through its new Ad Scaler advertising services, Akamai has partnered with Adobe Primetime to dynamically insert advertisements directly into video streams at the server level, mitigating the need for complex client technologies, improving operational visibility and reliability, and improving overall viewer experiences and advertising engagement.
Mobile Delivery: Akamai's mobile solutions are designed to support consistent, high-quality mobile video experiences. Predictive Content Delivery intelligently pre-positions high bitrate content onto devices for instant start-up with no re-buffering. Network-aware Bandwidth Guidance is intended to provide instant throughput availability from the cell tower for accurate bitrate adaptation to avoid re-buffering.
Media Analytics: Akamai's comprehensive and customizable suite of analytics tools monitor and measure quality of service, track engagement and capture viewer-level diagnostics. Akamai Media Analytics help provide a complete picture of content performance and end user experience.
In addition to its exhibit floor presence, Akamai Vice President of Marketing, EMEA, John Dillon, is speaking at the IBC IABM breakfast event, "Where's the Money in Broadcast and Media?" taking place on Friday, Sept. 11, from 7:30-9:30, in RAI theater E102. The panel is intended to help provide an understanding of the changing dynamics of the broadcast and media technology industries, the disrupters and objective business data.
Akamai's Executive Vice President and General Manager of Media, Bill Wheaton, is speaking at "The Business of 4K Live Streaming," on Sunday, Sept. 13 at 12:30 p.m. in the Elicium Room D203, Hall 12. The panel will review recent progress and early opportunities in live streaming 4K video and, in particular, live sports content delivered over-the-top.
For more information about Akamai's activities at the 2015 IBC Conference or to schedule a meeting please visit the Akamai IBC site .
About Akamai
As the global leader in Content Delivery Network (CDN) services, Akamai makes the Internet fast, reliable and secure for its customers. The company's advanced web performance, mobile performance, cloud security and media delivery solutions are revolutionizing how businesses optimize consumer, enterprise and entertainment experiences for any device, anywhere. To learn how Akamai solutions and its team of Internet experts are helping businesses move faster forward, please visit www.akamai.com or blogs.akamai.com , and follow @Akamai on Twitter .
Contacts:
