fuboTV Teams Up with Akamai for Global OTT Soccer Service
Live and on-demand video delivery solution reducing cost and compliance concerns while improving performance across devices
Akamai Technologies, Inc. September 22, 2015 6:30 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Sept. 22, 2015 /PRNewswire/ --  Akamai Technologies, Inc. ( AKAM ), the global leader in Content Delivery Network (CDN) services, today announced that fuboTV has selected Akamai's Media Delivery Solutions to support its over-the-top (OTT) soccer streaming service. fuboTV is using Akamai to deliver broadcast-quality live and on-demand soccer content to viewers worldwide while helping reduce costs and manage regional licensing agreements. Launched in January 2015, fuboTV delivers 30 to 40 live soccer games each week and hundreds of hours of VOD content to viewers across connected devices.
View photo
.
Since transitioning to Akamai and away from managing its own transcoding servers and numerous third-party providers, fuboTV successfully delivered two of soccer's largest events, El Clasico and Copa America. Not only has it improved playback performance; the company says it has done so while saving thousands of dollars each month by avoiding server upgrades, with the expectation that the savings will eventually be even greater over time.
Sung Ho Choi, CTO, fuboTV, credits Akamai's close collaboration, world-class solutions and proven global delivery for his team's ability to cost-effectively stream reliable, broadcast-quality content to viewers anytime, anywhere.
"With predictability in pricing being a key priority as we went global, we found Akamai to be the only real option to help us cost-effectively deliver live matches. I had always planned to take advantage of Akamai's services and was pleased that it made economic sense to use them during our startup phase," said Choi. "The transition went smoothly because Akamai has battle-tested its solutions and developed clear procedures for migration and going live."
fuboTV leverages Akamai's  Adaptive Media Delivery , which includes token authentication that grants authorized viewers access to premium content, and content targeting for compliance with regional licensing agreements. The company also uses Akamai's NetStorage cloud-based storage platform and Media Services Live to quickly deploy and scale live events at high quality.
"fuboTV's customers expect an instantaneous, high-quality stream whenever they want and wherever they are," said John Bishop, CTO of Media at Akamai. "With the help of Akamai's Media Delivery Solutions, fuboTV delivers optimal viewing experiences through OTT streaming that is on par with – or better than – what's experienced on traditional television."
For information about Akamai's Media Delivery services, visit the Akamai website . To learn more about fuboTV and its offerings visit its website .
About fuboTV
fuboTV provides soccer fans with access to their favorite teams' matches live in HD quality. Stream live matches from La Liga, Serie A, Bungesliga, Ligue 1 and Primeira Liga among the other top leagues and tournaments from your desktop, mobile phone, Roku, Chromecast and Amazon Fire TV. The best football matches from around the world available on one platform.
About Akamai®
As the global leader in Content Delivery Network ( CDN ) services, Akamai makes the Internet fast, reliable and secure for its customers. The company's advanced web performance, mobile performance, cloud security and media delivery solutions are revolutionizing how businesses optimize consumer, enterprise and entertainment experiences for any device, anywhere. To learn how Akamai solutions and its team of Internet experts are helping businesses move faster forward, please visit  www.akamai.com  or  blogs.akamai.com , and follow @Akamai on  Twitter .
Akamai Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
This release contains information about future expectations, plans and prospects of Akamai's management that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including, but not limited to, the effects of any attempts to intentionally disrupt Akamai's services or network, unexpected termination of Akamai's agreements with fuboTV, failure of Akamai's technology or systems to operate as expected and other factors that are discussed in Akamai's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents periodically filed with the SEC.
Contacts:
