Internap Teams with Akamai to Provide Cloud Security and Data Center Protection
Internap Corporation September 23, 2015 11:09 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
ATLANTA and CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Sept. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Internap Corporation ( INAP ), a provider of high-performance Internet infrastructure services , and Akamai Technologies, Inc. ( AKAM ), the global leader in Content Delivery Network (CDN) services , today announced that the companies have entered into an alliance to provide customers with Internap's performance-optimized cloud, data center and network services combined with Akamai's cloud security and data center protection services.
As part of the alliance, Internap will offer Akamai Cloud Security solutions to organizations in security-conscious industries – including financial services, healthcare and automotive – that require the infrastructure reliability, availability and scalability that Internap and Akamai jointly deliver. The alliance is expected to result in advanced web security solutions for organizations with performance-reliant applications and workloads, as well as more efficient access to both companies' technologies.
"Organizations that demand optimal web and application performance simply can't afford the potentially business-impacting outages and downtime associated with DDoS attacks," said Michael Ruffolo, Internap's president and CEO. "We believe this alliance is a logical and powerful combination that uniquely addresses this problem for our joint customers. Akamai will be our sole DDoS mitigation provider, bringing market-leading security capabilities to Internap's state-of-the-art data center facilities and to our expertise in delivering high-performance cloud, colocation and networking services."
According to research from Akamai , the frequency, size and sophistication of distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks have been increasing sharply. Offering protection against the largest and most complex attacks, Akamai helps safeguard websites and other Internet-facing applications from the risks of downtime and data theft. Built on the Akamai Intelligent Platform™ , Akamai Cloud Security solutions are designed to provide the scale to stop the largest DDoS and web application attacks without reducing performance, as well as offering intelligence into the latest threats and the expertise to adapt to shifting tactics and attack vectors.
"We view the combination of Internap's high-performance Internet infrastructure services and Akamai's cloud security solutions as a natural extension to what has been a very synergistic alliance between our two companies," said Brad Rinklin, Chief Marketing Officer and SVP – Global Alliances, Akamai. "Faced with an ever-changing threat landscape, organizations require comprehensive security solutions that address many different protection scenarios. These include securing mission?critical Web properties and applications from attack, as well as protecting enterprise IP applications across a data center. With this expanded alliance, Internap and Akamai are providing joint customers with both high-performing cloud and security capabilities."
Internap offers one of the industry's most flexible and high-performing Internet infrastructure portfolios – from OpenStack-based public cloud and automated bare-metal servers to managed hosting and colocation. Internap's Performance IP™ connectivity with patented Managed Internet Route Optimizer™ (MIRO) technology probes network paths across 88 points of presence worldwide for packet loss, latency and jitter and dynamically routes traffic over the fastest path, resulting in faster, more consistent performance for customer applications.
Internap is a member of the Akamai NetAlliance Partner Program , which enables partners to align with Akamai through training and certification, sales and pre-sales support and co-marketing programs.
Supporting Resources:
Akamai Web security blog posts
About Akamai
As the global leader in Content Delivery Network (CDN) services, Akamai makes the Internet fast, reliable and secure for its customers. The company's advanced web performance, mobile performance, cloud security and media delivery solutions are revolutionizing how businesses optimize consumer, enterprise and entertainment experiences for any device, anywhere. To learn how Akamai solutions and its team of Internet experts are helping businesses move faster forward, please visit www.akamai.com or blogs.akamai.com/ , and follow @Akamai on Twitter.
About Internap
Internap is the high-performance Internet infrastructure provider that powers the applications shaping the way we live, work and play. Our hybrid infrastructure delivers performance without compromise – blending virtual and bare-metal cloud, hosting and colocation services across a global network of data centers, optimized from the application to the end user and backed by rock-solid customer support and a 100% uptime guarantee. Since 1996, the most innovative companies have relied on Internap to make their applications faster and more scalable. For more information, visit us at  www.internap.com or www.internap.com/blog/ , and follow us on Twitter: @Internap .
Internap Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
This press release contains forward-looking statements by Internap's management. These forward-looking statements include statements related to the characteristics and performance of our services and the services of third parties with whom we have strategic alliances and the benefits that our customers may receive from them. Because such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include the actual performance of our services and the services of third parties with whom we have strategic alliances; the reaction and behavior of customers and the market to our services; our ability to react to trends and challenges in our business and the markets in which we operate; the availability of services from Internet network service providers or network service providers providing network access loops and local loops on favorable terms, or at all; failure of third party suppliers to deliver their products and services on favorable terms, or at all; failures in or intrusions into our network operations centers, data centers, network access points or computer systems; our ability to provide or improve Internet infrastructure services to our customers; and our ability to protect our intellectual property, as well as other factors discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no obligation to update, amend or clarify any forward-looking statement for any reason.
Akamai Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
This release contains information about future expectations, plans and prospects of Akamai's management that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including, but not limited to, the effects of any attempts to intentionally disrupt Akamai's services or network or Internap's services or products by hackers or others, the inability of Akamai and Internap technology or systems to operate together as expected or to continue to be interoperable, a failure of Akamai's network infrastructure, and other factors that are discussed in Akamai's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents periodically filed with the SEC.
Contacts:                                                                                          
