Content preferences
Done
PITTSBURGH, Sept.  30, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- WhereverTV Broadcasting Corp. ( TVTV ), announced today that it is continuing to improve and expand its content delivery assets, secure enhanced digital technologies, and expand its management team to gear up for growth in the delivery of real-time and live-streaming OTT content to consumers who prefer to watch content on a mobile or internet connected device. As part of this continuing strategy, WhereverTV also announced that it has contracted with Akamai Technologies, Inc. ( AKAM ), the global leader in Content Delivery Network (CDN) services, to enhance its user experience and content delivery platform.
Edward Ciofani, CEO, WhereverTV, stated, “As a company, we are moving quickly to become a global leader in the delivery of all forms of content on our OTT platform. And we believe the relationship with Akamai is a crucial part of successfully achieving our goals. As we improve and expand our content delivery assets and secure additional enhanced digital technologies, our success can only be amplified by a well-established and successful company like Akamai.”
“WhereverTV recognizes that consumers expect OTT services to do more than deliver their content of choice where and whenever they want it,” said John Bishop, CTO, Media, Akamai. “Viewers are demanding exceptional experiences with video quality that matches, if not exceeds what they’ve become accustomed to with broadcast. We are pleased that WhereverTV has chosen Akamai’s Media Delivery solutions as the foundation for its new service to meet rising expectations and quickly get up and running with a high-quality OTT offering.”
Akamai’s Media Delivery solutions are designed to help further enhance WhereverTV’s ability to deliver content to a variety of devices including Connected TVs, streaming media players, smartphones and TabletPCs as well as the ability to deliver that content in connection with its patented Interactive Program Guide technology. The relationship strengthens WhereverTV’s ability to broadcast to any device without regard to data speed constraints, and with very little latency issues often experienced with IPTV & OTT streaming or broadcasting.
WhereverTV is using Akamai’s Adaptive Media Delivery to help provide consistent, high-quality viewing experiences across different network types at varying connection speeds, as well as content targeting for compliance with regional licensing agreements. The OTT provider is also leveraging Akamai’s Media Services Live for linear streaming along with its cloud-based NetStorage complemented by Aspera upload acceleration to help ensure fast, high availability of new content.
Commenting on Akamai’s analytics capabilities, Ciofani said, “The deep visibility into performance that Akamai offers will help us monitor and stay on top of the crucial metrics that directly impact our success with our viewers. These analytics enable us to manage and optimize content, monetize it, and make sure our viewers remain interested, engaged, and increasing in numbers.”
The company has already announced its intentions to live stream content related to mainstream television and Country, Rock and Roll, R&B, Hip Hop & Christian music. The company is also intending to broadcast or partner with event coordinators in and outside of the music industry.  
For more information please click: Internet TV , Over the Top or WhereverTV .
About WhereverTV Broadcasting Corporation ( TVTV )
Founded in 2007, WhereverTV is the next generation subscription television service providing consumers with live-streaming, genre-specific, and in-language viewing choices from around the world, delivered to anywhere in the world, and through any internet enabled device. Programming is identical to existing broadcast and distribution providers with the only differences being that the broadcast signals are accessed through the internet via an over the top (OTT) platform, and channel management is handled by company’s patented Interactive Program Guide (IPG) technology. WhereverTV provides an economically beneficial and completely versatile alternative to traditional cable and satellite services, with the added benefits of personalization and portability. Also known as Internet TV , WhereverTV delivers these same channels, shows and events to SmartTVs and digital media receivers including: GoogleTV, AppleTV, Roku, Boxee, iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, Droid Smartphone, and TabletPCs. The WhereverTV platform enables subscribers to access licensed and free-to-air content across these devices with the IPG across unlimited geographies, and wherever there is internet connectivity. The customer viewing experiences are based on customer location (geo-targeting) and content-rights management (subscriptions). Current in-language subscription offerings include Arabic TV, French TV, Italian TV, and Moroccan TV. Current genre specific subscriptions include NEWS channels, faith based channels and more.  Apps are presently available for free in App Stores for iOS (Apple), Android and GoogleTV devices. DVR functionality to record your shows and view later is presently in the works. Licensed US TV content subscriptions will be available in 2015. Please visit: www.wherever.tv , for more info.
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which may not be based on historical facts. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results events or developments to be materially different from any future results, events or developments expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors should be considered carefully and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future results, events or developments.
Professional Services
