Ally Named Money Smart Week's 2015 Strategic Partner by Money Smart Week Michigan Coalition
Ally Financial August 3, 2015 10:03 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
DETROIT, Aug. 3, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Ally Financial has been recognized by the Money Smart Week Michigan Coalition as a 2015 Strategic Partner for its commitment and ongoing participation in Money Smart Week Michigan. Money Smart Week is a national public awareness campaign coordinated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to help individuals and families better manage their personal finances. 
"As proud supporters of Money Smart Week Michigan for several years, Ally is honored to receive this award from the Coalition," said Gina Proia, chief communications officer and head of corporate citizenship at Ally. "Ally believes all consumers should be armed with the knowledge to make smart, well-informed decisions about spending and financial habits, and advances this effort through free educational courses, resources and tips available year round from the Ally Wallet Wise program."
"It is a privilege to lead Michigan's dedicated team of Money Smart Week partners and serve the non-commercial financial education needs of residents across the state," said Kelly Masters, chair, Money Smart Week Michigan. "Through the long-standing commitment, collaborative spirit and dedication of partners like Ally Financial, we are able to make a difference in the lives of thousands of consumers each April. I look forward to continuing this work with Ally in 2016 and for many years to come."
During Money Smart Week 2015, held April 18-25, Ally teamed with 100 Black Men of America and the Society for Financial Education and Professional Development to teach nearly 30 free Ally Wallet Wise financial literacy classes to approximately 420 consumers in metro Detroit.
Wallet Wise is a free financial education program created by Ally Financial that teaches consumers the basics of budgeting, credit, auto finance, banking and investing. Ally has provided nearly 70,000 consumers with basic financial education via the Wallet Wise program since 2011.
About Money Smart Week
Created by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in 2002, Money Smart Week is a public awareness campaign designed to help consumers better manage their personal finances. This is achieved through the collaboration and coordinated efforts of hundreds of organizations across the country. Programming is offered to all demographics and income levels and covers all facets of personal finance.
About Ally Financial Inc.
Ally Financial Inc. ( ALLY ) is a leading automotive financial services company powered by a top direct banking franchise. Ally's automotive services business offers a full spectrum of financial products and services, including new and used vehicle inventory and consumer financing, leasing, vehicle service contracts, commercial loans and vehicle remarketing services, as well as a variety of insurance offerings, including inventory insurance, insurance consultative services for dealers and other ancillary products. Ally Bank, the company's direct banking subsidiary and member FDIC, offers an array of deposit products, including certificates of deposit, savings accounts, money market accounts, IRA deposit products and interest checking. Ally's Corporate Finance unit provides financing to middle-market companies across a broad range of industries.
With approximately $156.5 billion in assets as of June 30, 2015, Ally operates as a financial holding company. For more information, visit the Ally media site at http://media.ally.com or follow Ally on Twitter: @Ally
Contact:
