Ally Corporate Finance Targets Technology Sector to Grow its Commercial Lending Business
New team of experienced industry veterans formed to lead technology-focused efforts
Ally Financial September 8, 2015 10:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
NEW YORK, Sept. 8, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Ally Corporate Finance, a unit of the Ally Bank subsidiary of Ally Financial Inc. ( ALLY ) that provides senior secured commercial-lending products to primarily U.S.-based, middle-market companies, today announced the formation of a team focused exclusively on fueling its expansion into the venture-backed technology sector.
The newly formed Ally Technology Finance group combines Ally Corporate Finance's client-focused dedication and expertise in financing leveraged transactions with the experience and knowledge of industry veterans skilled in developing and executing transactions in the technology sector.
Ally Technology Finance will be led by Richard Suhl, who joins Ally Corporate Finance as senior managing director. Other members of this team include Christopher Erro, who joins Ally as senior director, Mike Griffin, who joins Ally as senior director, and Brian Baranaskas, a current director at Ally. The team is aligned under George Triebenbacher, the president of Ally Corporate Finance's sponsor financing business.
"We have a growth mindset at Ally Corporate Finance, and we have been looking at a variety of opportunities for our business," said William Hall Jr., president and chief executive officer of Ally Corporate Finance. "Given our reputation as one of the most trusted sources of capital for equity sponsors and middle-market companies, a next logical step in our growth strategy is to broaden our reach to include the technology sector."
A focus for Ally Corporate Finance in recent years has been the area of healthcare, and its success in specialty sectors has contributed to the steady growth of its overall business. 
"This team's collective years in financing the venture-backed technology sector, coupled with our strong capital position as part of Ally Bank, represents a significant new opportunity to expand Ally Corporate Finance's product offerings," said Triebenbacher. "We are very excited by the attractive growth prospects in this key sector of the American economy."   
About Ally Corporate Finance
Ally Corporate Finance, a unit of Ally Bank, provides senior secured commercial-lending products to primarily U.S.-based middle market companies. Ally Corporate Finance lends to manufacturers, distributors, service companies and specialty sectors such as healthcare, retail, and automotive. Loans generally range from $10 to $250 million and include enterprise value-based cash flow loans and asset-based loans to support refinancing, growth, acquisition and/or recapitalization. Learn more at www.allycf.com .
For more information, visit the Ally media site at http://media.ally.com or follow us on Twitter @ally.
Contact:
