Compare Brokers
American Apparel Further Strengthens its Management Team
Thoryn Stephens will serve as the company's first Chief Digital Officer; Cynthia Erland appointed new Senior Vice President of Marketing
American Apparel February 23, 2015 4:30 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
LOS ANGELES, Feb. 23, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- American Apparel, Inc. ("the Company") (NYSE MKT: APP), a vertically integrated manufacturer, distributor, and retailer of branded fashion-basic apparel, today announced two leadership appointments. Thoryn Stephens has been named Chief Digital Officer, a newly created position, and Cynthia Erland has been named Senior Vice President of Marketing. 
"I am excited to welcome Thoryn and Cynthia to the Company," said Paula Schneider, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of American Apparel. "Both are innovators with deep expertise working with established brands. They will be an important addition to our experienced, creative, and passionate team."
In his newly created position as Chief Digital Officer, Thoryn Stephens will be responsible for optimizing the company's digital marketing, data analytics, and e-commerce strategies. Prior to joining the Company, Stephens was Vice President of data science at Tillster, the global leader in customer engagement programs for the restaurant industry. He has also built products and platforms for some of the world's largest brands, including the first optimization program for the Fox Network Group (Fox Broadcasting/Fox Sports/FX) and Beachbody (P90X). Stephens is also a published scientist, and previously a molecular biologist in the biotech industry.
Cynthia Erland will oversee the company's marketing and communications programs. Erland is a seasoned marketing executive with over 20 years of fashion and entertainment branding experience. Most recently a senior marketing executive at Perry Ellis International, C&C California, Universal Studios and E! Networks, she has built a consistent track record of driving successful brand recognition through advertising, public relations, digital media, celebrity seeding, promotions and events.
Both Stephens and Erland will assume their roles on March 9, 2015 and will report to CEO Paula Schneider.
About American Apparel
American Apparel is a vertically integrated manufacturer, distributor, and retailer of branded fashion basic apparel based in downtown Los Angeles, California. As of September 30, 2014, American Apparel had approximately 10,000 employees and operated 245 retail stores in 20 countries including the United States and Canada. American Apparel also operates a global e-commerce site that serves over 60 countries worldwide at  http://www.americanapparel.com . In addition, American Apparel operates a leading wholesale business that supplies high quality T-shirts and other casual wear to distributors and screen printers.
Weber Shandwick
