American Apparel Continues to Build New Leadership Team
Brian McHale named Chief Information Officer
American Apparel, Inc. June 10, 2015 12:30 PM
?
Done
LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
American Apparel, Inc. (NYSE MKT: APP), a vertically-integrated       manufacturer, distributor, and retailer of branded fashion-basic       apparel, today announced another leadership appointment. Brian McHale       has been named Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer.
“As we continue to implement our multi-year turnaround, Brian will be an       important asset to the company,” said Paula Schneider, CEO of American       Apparel. “Brian brings deep experience in his area of expertise, which       will undoubtedly have a significant and positive impact on American       Apparel.”
As Chief Information Officer, McHale will oversee information technology       and computer systems at the company. In addition to providing critical       support to American Apparel’s onsite hardware and software applications,       McHale will also lead the development and expansion of the company’s       retail digital capabilities alongside Thoryn Stephens, recently       appointed Chief Digital Officer.
McHale comes to American Apparel with over 25 years of experience       developing IT governance, Business Intelligence and Big Data solutions       for some of the U.S.’s largest companies such as DirecTV and Verizon. He       has also transformed these companies to cloud-based infrastructures,       driving efficiencies and cost savings. McHale’s experience includes work       for agency clients in a variety of categories, including turnaround       businesses, similar to American Apparel.
McHale assumed his role on April 13, 2015, and reports directly to Chief       Financial Officer Hassan Natha.
About American Apparel
American Apparel, Inc. (the "Company," "we," "us," and "our") is a       vertically-integrated manufacturer, distributor, and retailer of branded       fashion-basic apparel based in downtown Los Angeles, California. As       of March 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 10,000 employees and       operated 239 retail stores in 20 countries including the United       States and Canada. The Company also operates a global e-commerce site       that serves over 50 countries worldwide at http://www.americanapparel.com .       In addition, the Company operates a leading wholesale business that       supplies high quality T-shirts and other casual wear to distributors and       screen printers.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150610005370/en/
American Apparel
