IRVINE, Calif., March 2, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (EW), the global leader in patient-focused innovations for structural heart disease and critical care monitoring, today announced U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to expand use of the Edwards SAPIEN XT transcatheter heart valve for pulmonic valve replacement procedures. The approval enables the treatment of adult and pediatric patients who suffer from either a narrowed pulmonary valve or moderate or greater pulmonary regurgitation caused by congenital heart disease. View photo "U.S. approval of the SAPIEN XT valve for pulmonic procedures provides an important, minimally invasive treatment option for a small group of patients who typically face the burden of multiple open-heart surgeries, oftentimes beginning at birth or during childhood. As risks increase with each open-heart surgery, a non-surgical option can help them receive treatment, recover and return to normal activities sooner," said Larry L. Wood, Edwards' corporate vice president, transcatheter heart valves. FDA approval of the Edwards SAPIEN XT valve for pulmonic procedures was supported by data from the multicenter COMPASSION clinical trial and additional clinical data from Europe. As previously indicated, the commercial opportunity related to this approval is small and is factored into 2016 financial expectations. About Edwards Lifesciences Edwards Lifesciences, based in Irvine, Calif., is the global leader in patient-focused medical innovations for structural heart disease, as well as critical care and surgical monitoring. Driven by a passion to help patients, the company collaborates with the world's leading clinicians and researchers to address unmet healthcare needs, working to improve patient outcomes and enhance lives. For more information, visit www.Edwards.com and follow us on Twitter at @EdwardsLifesci. This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, Mr. Wood's statements and statements regarding the Company's financial guidance for 2016.  Forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions made by management of the company and are believed to be reasonable, though they are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of the statement. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including but not limited to, unanticipated outcomes of longer term clinical experience with the product, or unanticipated manufacturing, quality or regulatory delays or issues. These and other additional factors are detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. These filings, along with important safety information about our products, may be found at edwards.com. Edwards, Edwards Lifesciences, the stylized E logo, COMPASSION, Edwards SAPIEN, Edwards SAPIEN XT, SAPIEN and SAPIEN XT are trademarks of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140714/126903   To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/edwards-sapien-xt-valve-receives-fda-approval-for-pulmonic-procedures-300229246.html