NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / January 29, 2016 / Park Lane Advisor has initiated coverage on the following equities: St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ), Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (EW), Stryker Corporation (SYK), and Zimmer Biomet Holdings Inc. (ZBH). Free research report on St. Jude Medical can be accessed at http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ On Thursday, January 28, 2016, the NASDAQ Composite ended at 4,506.68, up 0.86%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 0.79%, to finish the day at 16,069.64, and the S&P 500 closed at 1,893.36, up 0.55%. The gains were broad based as seven out of nine sectors ended the session in positive. Register for your complimentary reports at the links given below. On Thursday, shares in St. Jude Medical Inc. ended the session 2.85% lower at $52.75. The stock reported a trading volume of 3.07 million shares, above its three months average volume of 1.85 million shares. Shares of the company traded at a PE ratio of 14.99. The company is trading 11.94% below its 50-day moving average and 21.67% below its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of St. Jude Medical Inc. have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 29.39. Sign up and read the free notes on STJ at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ Edwards Lifesciences Corp.'s stock lost 2.59%, to close the day at $75.88. The stock recorded a trading volume of 2.09 million shares, above its three months average volume of 1.70 million shares. Edwards Lifesciences Corp.'s shares have advanced 0.52% in the previous three months and 17.76% in the past one year, but the stock has fallen by 4.94% in the past one month. The company's shares are trading 3.65% above their 200-day moving average. Additionally, Edwards Lifesciences Corp. traded at a PE ratio of 35.96 and has an RSI of 42.79. The complimentary notes on EW can be downloaded in PDF format at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ On Thursday, shares in Stryker Corp. recorded a trading volume of 3.58 million shares, higher than their three months average volume of 1.68 million shares. The stock ended the day 1.31% lower at $97.31. Shares of the company traded at a PE ratio of 31.59. Stryker Corp.'s stock has advanced 4.00% in the last one month, 4.12% in the previous three months and 6.50% in the last one year. The company is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 4.43% and 1.78%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Stryker Corp. have an RSI of 63.11. Register for free on Park Lane Advisor and access the latest research on SYK at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ Zimmer Biomet Holdings Inc.'s stock finished Thursday's session 4.02% lower at $97.55. A total of 2.31 million shares were traded, which was above its three months average volume of 1.27 million shares. Zimmer Biomet Holdings Inc.'s shares have advanced 2.70% in the previous three months, but the shares have lost 4.39% over the last one month. The company's shares are trading below their 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 3.82% and 6.87%, respectively. Zimmer Biomet Holdings Inc.'s stock traded at a PE ratio of 96.58 and has an RSI of 40.99. The complete research on ZBH is available for free at: http://www.parklaneadvisor.com/ About Park Lane Advisor: Park Lane Advisor ("PLA") produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. PLA has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below. PLA has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document. PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES: The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer"). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer and the Sponsor have not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author, the Reviewer, or the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the "Production Team") in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. NO WARRANTY PLA, the Author, the Reviewer and the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the "Publishers") are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. NOT AN OFFERING This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither PLA nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit www.ParkLaneAdvisor.com RESTRICTIONS PLA is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia. CONTACT For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at: E-mail: media (at) ParkLaneAdvisor (dot) com SOURCE: Park Lane Advisor