ADP Vantage HCM Solution Garners Top Recognition in 2015 Technology Innovation Awards From Ventana Research
ADP, LLC October 19, 2015 9:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
ROSELAND, NJ--(Marketwired - Oct 19, 2015) -  ADP® today announced that Ventana Research® has chosen ADP Vantage HCM® as the leading Human Capital Management (HCM) solution in the Business Innovation category of its 2015 Technology Innovation Awards.
The annual Ventana Research Technology Innovation Awards recognize business and technology achievements in 28 categories. The awards identify and honor companies behind the technologies that have had or have the potential to deliver the most striking positive impact on business. Ventana Research also recognizes pioneering vendors whose advancements in technology help drive change and increase value for organizations worldwide.
"We selected ADP Vantage HCM for its transformative approach to the user experience and for how its workflow enables managers to engage with the application and interact with the team to accomplish tasks in an efficient manner," said Mark Smith, CEO and chief research officer for Ventana Research. "The fresh, new approach to the application is overdue in the industry and will help employees not just be efficient through a modern user experience, but actually enjoy working with the application."
Award recipients were selected based upon each company's contributions in a specific business and/or IT category, and the extent to which they do or will help organizations enhance business processes and outcomes.
"ADP is delighted with this recognition as we continue to innovate on the user experience for ADP Vantage HCM," said Stuart Sackman, corporate vice president global product and technology at ADP. "Our goal is to help our clients preserve the 'human element' in human resources. We are committed to fostering people-driven applications that give our clients the tools they need to be more successful at work while driving employee productivity and engagement. We're dedicated to using our innovation to raise the bar with more user-friendly, more intuitive technology."
About ADP (
