Stanley Steemer International, Inc., a family-owned business for more than six decades, is the largest …
ROSELAND, NJ--(Marketwired - Oct 22, 2015) -
Integrates and consolidates solutions onto one comprehensive platform.
Broadens Human Capital Management services it provides managers and employees.
Upgrades benefits, talent management, tax and payroll functions.
For nearly 70 years, Stanley Steemer International, Inc., has evolved from cleaning carpets to offering customers a wide variety of deep-cleaning services, including upholstery, tile and grout, hardwood, air ducts and 24-hour water damage restoration. For 27 of those years, ADP® has evolved with Stanley Steemer International to its most recent implementation of ADP Vantage HCM®, an integrated human capital management platform that is helping the company manage a broader selection of human resources and payroll solutions, such as benefits, talent management, recruiting management and payroll, including wage garnishment services.
Prior to this latest upgrade, Stanley Steemer International used ADP for basic human resources, payroll, tax and unemployment compensation solutions. Today, a more comprehensive solution benefits its 2,300 employees working out of 65 company-owned U.S. locations in 29 states.
"We needed a new, integrated, comprehensive platform that would combine all of our HR pieces," said Eric Smith, vice president of Human Resources for Stanley Steemer International. "Before, we had separate vendors for HR, payroll, benefits enrollment, applicant tracking and background checking. That meant it took time and effort for the HR staff to transmit files back and forth among vendors, and we spent a lot of time on vendor management. ADP really surprised us with the strength of ADP Vantage HCM and its ability to serve as a single, integrated platform."
"As Stanley Steemer International has grown, ADP has grown with it," said Dave Imbrogno, president of National Account Services at ADP. "Stanley Steemer International is intensely focused on meeting the needs of families and communities around the United States. We're pleased that ADP's focus on the human side of work and our expertise in helping clients build better workforces resonates with Stanley Steemer International's emphasis on improving people's lives."
While Smith said ADP is viewed as a trusted partner, he pointed out that the company still had to conduct a rigorous assessment of next-generation HCM platforms. 
"We did extensive due diligence," Smith said, "fielding RFP presentations from six quality national companies, including ADP. ADP had the best product with ADP Vantage HCM. Our HR department is excited about the talent management and succession planning function which enables managers to track the development of staff. The integrated learning management system and compensation management tool are two more features that we're enthusiastic about. 
"The solution also provides us with a comprehensive database to track the strength of our team -- company-wide," Smith continued. "We feel that as we continue to use that it will be a strong benefit for us. Plus, by relying on this single, integrated platform, we free time that used to be spent managing many vendors' systems to providing additional value to Stanley Steemer International."
Smith said he also was pleased with the implementation of the new system.
"The ADP implementation team did an extraordinary job," said Smith. "The implementation team was comprised of experts who worked really well with our team. For an implementation of this magnitude, this was very unusual. Frequently, systems go haywire because they get sold and then the company can't implement. That wasn't our experience with ADP at all. We had a great implementation from a great team."
In the end, it was the technology and the ADP people behind it that helped bring ADP Vantage HCM to Stanley Steemer International.
"We have partnered with ADP for more than 25 years," Smith said. "They are a trusted company with a trusted brand. We continue to believe that ADP has the depth of service and support we need to fully satisfy the needs of our company and employees as we accommodate future growth."
About ADP (
