David Congdon of ODFL Named to Fortune List
2015 Businessperson of Year focuses on leaders of high-performing companies
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. 22 hours ago
?
Content preferences
Done
THOMASVILLE, N.C., Nov. 13, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Fortune magazine has named David Congdon, vice chairman and CEO of Old Dominion Freight Line, to its Businessperson of the Year list.
View photo
.
The annual feature spotlights 50 CEOs who lead their companies to steady, consistent performance year over year, no matter the economy or market disruptions that could impact their businesses.
"I am grateful for this recognition from Fortune and truly humbled by the honor," Mr. Congdon said. "Most important, this recognition is clearly a testament to the entire OD Family and it is an honor daily to lead and work with them. Believe me, this does not happen by accident and it takes a dedicated team to accomplish."
The selection criteria for this honor is very detailed and Fortune considers more than two-dozen metrics. Financial results, including 12-month and three-year growth in profits and revenues, figure prominently in the magazine's analysis. Concrete financial results and exemplary long-term performance of the company were key drivers of the ranking.
For the last five years of financial results, ODFL has consistently increased revenue, operating income and net income, from 2010 through the third quarter of 2015. Also factored in is a company's stock performance and total shareholder returns over the same periods.
Nonfinancial elements, like business influence, leadership style, and strategic initiatives, play a part in the evaluation as well. To round out its thinking, Fortune consults leadership experts.
For more information about Old Dominion, visit www.odfl.com or call (800) 432-6335. On Twitter: @ODFL_Inc and Facebook: Old Dominion Freight Line Inc.
About Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. ( ODFL ) is a leading, less-than-truckload ("LTL"), union-free company providing premium service to all its customers. OD offers regional, inter-regional and national LTL service. In addition to its core LTL services, the company offers its customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing. In addition, Old Dominion offers a consumer product for household moving: OD Household Services. Through strategic partnerships, the Company also offers international freight forwarding services throughout the world. Old Dominion's claims ratio and on-time record are among the best in the industry. For more than 80 years, Old Dominion has been helping the world keep promises.
Recently, Old Dominion was recognized with the following acknowledgements for company leadership in the industry:
Forbes Magazine named Old Dominion as one of America's 100 Most Trustworthy Companies for the third consecutive year.
For the sixth consecutive year, Logistics Management honored OD with its Quest for Quality Award.
Mastio & Company ranked Old Dominion as No. 1 National LTL carrier for the sixth consecutive year.
2015 SmartWay Excellence Award winner
Inbound Logistics magazine recognized Old Dominion as a 2015 Top 100 Trucker and named the company to its 75 Green Supply Chain Partners (G75) List for the fifth consecutive year.
Commercial Carrier Journal ranked OD No. 10 on the 2015 Top 250 Carriers list.
NASSTRAC honored the company as 2015 Carrier of the Year for the third consecutive year.
SupplyChainBrain named ODFL in its 2015 "100 Great Supply Chain Partners" listing.
CIO magazine recognized Old Dominion for IT Excellence with the CIO 100 Award for the fifth consecutive year.
Fortune Magazine named OD as one of the Top 100 Fastest-Growing Companies.
FleetOwner magazine honored OD with Fleet of the Year Award.
