THOMASVILLE, N.C., April 28, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- When it comes to moving, about 1 in 5 Americans aged 21+ would rather do their taxes by hand (17%) or give up their favorite food for a month (21%) than drive a moving truck, according to a new survey commissioned by Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. (ODFL) and conducted online by Harris Poll in February 2016. View gallery Do you really want to move yourself? Results from the survey show over one third of Americans aged 21+ (36%) have moved more than once in the past 10 years, and more than half (52%) would want to hire someone else to drive the rental moving truck in a future move. "Moving your household is complicated enough without worrying about maneuvering a rental truck," said Marty Freeman, senior vice president of sales at Old Dominion Freight Line. "That's why at OD Household Services we provide the trailer for consumers to pack and handle all the driving from your old home to the new location." Just over 2 in 5 Americans aged 21+ (43%) have driven a moving truck and 42% would not feel safe driving a moving truck. Of those surveyed, 32% have hired movers to pack or load their belongings and 11% say their employer has hired movers to do the packing and/or loading. Over half of Americans, 53%, would use a service that has someone else drive a moving truck which they packed themselves even if it cost a little more than driving a rental truck themselves. OD Household Services® provides a cost-effective way for residential customers to move their household goods while OD does the driving. The company drops off a trailer at the customer's home, the customer loads it and OD deliver's it safely to its final destination. This service provides individuals with the confidence of professional transportation and on time delivery of their household goods. Moreover, OD Household Services allows customers to pay for only the space used, not rent an entire truck. A great value service and you don't have to drive.   Go to odmove.com or call 1 (877) 358-6928 for a fast and easy way to receive a free quote, and schedule and track your belongings from your mobile device. Reservation changes are made free of charge, making this moving service flexible and accommodating to everyone's schedule. On Twitter: @ODHousehold and Facebook: OD Household Services Survey methodology This survey was conducted online within the United States by Harris Poll on behalf of Old Dominion from February 23-25, 2016, among 1,963 U.S. adults ages 21 and older. This online survey is not based on a probability sample and therefore no estimate of theoretical sampling error can be calculated. For more information about Old Dominion, visit www.odfl.com or call (800) 432-6335. On Twitter: @ODFL_Inc and Facebook: Old Dominion Freight Line Inc. About Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. OD Household Services is a division of Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. (ODFL) which is a leading, less-than-truckload ("LTL"), union-free company providing premium service to all its customers. OD offers regional, inter-regional and national LTL service. In addition to its core LTL services, the company offers its customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing. In addition, Old Dominion offers a consumer product for household moving: OD Household Services. Through strategic partnerships, the Company also offers international freight forwarding services throughout the world. Old Dominion's claims ratio and on-time record are among the best in the industry. For more than 80 years, Old Dominion has been helping the world keep promises. Recently, Old Dominion was recognized with the following acknowledgements for company leadership in the industry: View gallery   View gallery   View gallery Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160428/361161 Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160428/361162 Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160428/361163 Photo -  http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160428/361164  To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/moving-some-prefer-doing-their-taxes-more-than-driving-a-moving-truck-300259445.html