THOMASVILLE, N.C., Nov. 4, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Old Dominion Freight Line rededicates its newly renovated corporate office today, with Gov. Pat McCrory commending the company for its commitment, growth and steady employment in North Carolina.
Old Dominion, which celebrated 80 years in business last year, has been headquartered in North Carolina since 1962, when it acquired and merged with Bottoms-Fiske Truck Line based in High Point.
"We are very proud to call Thomasville, N.C., the Piedmont Triad and this beautiful building our corporate home," said David Congdon, Vice Chairman and CEO, Old Dominion Freight Line. "While we've been at this location for many years, we celebrate a rededication today after nearly two years of renovations. The extensive improvements ensure the best work environment and efficiency for every member of the OD Family based here."
With the completion of the renovation at 500 Old Dominion Way in Thomasville, the company realizes a nearly 50 percent increase in work station capacity: 166,000 square feet in the two-story building. Space was optimized to create more work spaces, double the amount of conference areas and enhance our employees work environment. 
"Our administration is committed to encouraging companies here in North Carolina to expand and thrive," Gov. McCrory said. "Old Dominion's commitment to North Carolina and investment in our state is a great sign of our improving business climate, strong economy and talented workforce."
In addition to remodeling the building, OD also upgraded its entire technology network nationwide. This substantial upgrade will allow the company and customers to gain efficiency, scalability, and flexibility. 
Last year OD celebrated its 80th anniversary of "Helping the World Keep Promises." The company started with a single truck, and today is the fourth largest less-than-truckload motor carrier in the country.
In addition to its corporate office, OD operates 224 service centers nationwide. Each plays an integral role in the company's domestic freight network, providing complete coverage anywhere in the United States, in addition to direct service to Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
About Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. ( ODFL ) is a leading, less-than-truckload ("LTL"), union-free company providing premium service to all its customers. OD offers regional, inter-regional and national LTL service. In addition to its core LTL services, the company offers its customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing. In addition, Old Dominion offers a consumer product for household moving: OD Household Services. Through strategic partnerships, the Company also offers international freight forwarding services throughout the world. Old Dominion's claims ratio and on-time record are among the best in the industry. For more than 80 years, Old Dominion has been helping the world keep promises.
Recently, Old Dominion was recognized with the following acknowledgments for company leadership in the industry:
Forbes Magazine named Old Dominion as one of America's 100 Most Trustworthy Companies for the third consecutive year.
For the sixth consecutive year, Logistics Management honored OD with its Quest for Quality Award.
2015 SmartWay Excellence Award winner.
Inbound Logistics magazine recognized Old Dominion as a 2015 Top 100 Trucker and named the company to its 75 Green Supply Chain Partners (G75) List for the fifth consecutive year.
No. 10 on CCJ's top 250 carriers for 2015.
NASSTRAC honored the company as 2015 Carrier of the Year for the third consecutive year.
SupplyChainBrain's named ODFL in its 2015 "100 Great Supply Chain Partners" listing.
Mastio & Company ranked Old Dominion as No. 1 National LTL carrier for the fifth consecutive year.
CIO magazine recognized Old Dominion for IT Excellence with the CIO 100 Award for the fifth consecutive year.
Fortune Magazine named OD as one of the Top 100 Fastest-Growing Companies.
FleetOwner magazine honored OD with Fleet of the Year Award.
To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/old-dominion-rededicates-renovated-thomasville-corporate-office-300171681.html
Professional Services