Old Dominion Freight Line Adopts ProcessMAP's Platform to Manage Enterprise Compliance and Mitigate Corporate Risk
ProcessMAP's cloud software will improve compliance, efficiency and visibility across the organization
ProcessMAP Corporation October 15, 2015 7:13 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
SUNRISE, Fla., Oct. 15, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- ProcessMAP Corporation, the leading provider of enterprise cloud software for Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management , has announced that Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. ( ODFL ), a leading transportation services provider, has selected its cloud-based compliance management platform to better manage its corporate risk.
View photo
.
Old Dominion Freight Line operates 224 locations across the United States, offering regional, inter-regional and national LTL services. In addition to its core LTL services, the company offers its customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing. Through strategic partnerships, the company also offers international freight forwarding services throughout the world.
The company previously used a paper-based system to handle its wide range of internal compliance and management system audits, but found the process laborious. Old Dominion Freight Line has grown tremendously over the past 81 years from a single truck to a global transportation company with nearly 20,000 employees.
"At Old Dominion Freight Line, we have a strategic and long-term view of our business, including adopting a 'Beyond Compliance' philosophy," said Sam Faucette, Vice President of Safety at Old Dominion Freight Line. "With hundreds of locations nationwide and requirements to comply with a wide range of OSHA, EPA, and DOT regulations, ensuring compliance across facilities was arduous. Using ProcessMAP, we are positioned to reduce non-conformance risk and spend a fraction of the time we used to invest with the ability to leverage mobile functionality, automate processes, and link corrective and preventative actions (CAPAs) with audit findings.
Prior to ProcessMAP, Old Dominion Freight Line's corporate auditing team made multiple site visits – once, to initially conduct the audit and then to perform follow-up visits 30-45 days thereafter. They will now be able to log-in remotely to ProcessMAP's compliance management system to manage non-conformances, as well as to assign and track action items through closure, which will eliminate a significant amount of travel, time and associated costs.
"Without question, paper-based processes require substantially larger investments of time and resources. ProcessMAP's platform allows companies to standardize and automate critical processes – saving money, while increasing accuracy and efficiency," said Jagan Garimella, Chief Technology Officer at ProcessMAP. "We are very pleased that Old Dominion selected ProcessMAP as its first enterprise cloud solution, and welcome them to our expanding customer network that enjoys the advantages of EHS in the cloud," Garimella added.
Old Dominion's investment in a global EHS platform is only one example of its commitment to environmental stewardship and leading-edge technologies. Since 2009, the company has received a steady stream of industry accolades, including inclusion in the Inbound Logistics 75 Green Supply Chain Partners (G75) list and several CIO 100 Awards. Forbes magazine also recently named Old Dominion one of "America's 100 Most Trustworthy Companies" for the third consecutive year and as one of "America's Best Employers."
About ProcessMAP Corporation
ProcessMAP Corporation is the leading provider of cloud-based enterprise software solutions that empowers organizations to manage risk in three key areas: Employee Health & Safety; Environment & Sustainability; and Enterprise Compliance. The company is headquartered in Sunrise, Florida, with locations across the globe, serving customers in over 95 countries. For more information, visit ProcessMAP.com . 
About Old Dominion Freight Line
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc., is a leading, less-than-truckload ("LTL"), union-free carrier providing regional, inter-regional and national LTL services, which includes ground and air expedited transportation and consumer household pickup and delivery through a single integrated organization. In addition to its core LTL services, the company offers a broad range of value-added services including international freight forwarding, container drayage, truckload brokerage, supply chain consulting and warehousing. For more information, visit ODFL.com .
To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/old-dominion-freight-line-adopts-processmaps-platform-to-manage-enterprise-compliance-and-mitigate-corporate-risk-300159741.html
Professional Services
