THOMASVILLE, N.C., Dec. 7, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. ( ODFL ) has received the 2015 Mastio Award for the sixth consecutive year. The company led all national less-than-truckload (LTL) carriers in Mastio's annual Customer Value & Loyalty Report.
Mastio & Company conducts the annual LTL shipping survey to gauge customer satisfaction and loyalty among more than 2,000 industry professionals. The winner is selected based on evaluations and customer perceptions of more than 300 LTL carriers regarding service categories such as pricing, on-time and damage-free deliveries, quality of service and overall satisfaction.
"We are always gratified when customers express their confidence and loyalty in OD in this highly competitive market," said David Congdon, vice chairman and CEO of Old Dominion Freight Line. "This award will allow potential customers and competitors alike to see that we excel in the crucial customer satisfaction areas of carrier responsiveness and our customers' ease of doing business with OD."
Mastio said of its LTL study: "The simple truth is customers base their purchase decision on which carriers provide the best-perceived value."
For more information about Old Dominion, visit www.odfl.com  or call (800) 432-6335. On Twitter: @ODFL_Inc and Facebook: Old Dominion Freight Line Inc.
About Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. ( ODFL ) is a leading, less-than-truckload ("LTL"), union-free company providing premium service to all its customers. OD offers regional, inter-regional and national LTL service. In addition to its core LTL services, the company offers its customers a broad range of logistics services including ground and air expedited transportation, supply chain consulting, transportation management, truckload brokerage, container delivery and warehousing. In addition, Old Dominion offers a consumer product for household moving: OD Household Services. Through strategic partnerships, the Company also offers international freight forwarding services throughout the world. Old Dominion's claims ratio and on-time record are among the best in the industry. For more than 80 years, Old Dominion has been helping the world keep promises.
Recently, Old Dominion was recognized with the following acknowledgements for company leadership in the industry:
Forbes Magazine named Old Dominion as one of America's 100 Most Trustworthy Companies for the third consecutive year.
Fortune named CEO David Congdon to its 2015 Businessperson of the Year list.
For the sixth consecutive year, Logistics Management honored OD with its Quest for Quality Award.
The ATA Transportation Security Council awarded OD with its 2015 Excellence in Claims and Loss Prevention Award for the third consecutive year.
Mastio & Company ranked Old Dominion as No. 1 National LTL carrier for the sixth consecutive year.
2015 SmartWay Excellence Award winner.
Inbound Logistics magazine recognized Old Dominion as a 2015 Top 100 Trucker and named the company to its 75 Green Supply Chain Partners (G75) List for the fifth consecutive year.
Commercial Carrier Journal ranked OD No. 10 on the 2015 Top 250 Carriers list.
NASSTRAC honored the company as 2015 Carrier of the Year for the third consecutive year.
SupplyChainBrain named ODFL in its 2015 "100 Great Supply Chain Partners" listing.
CIO magazine recognized Old Dominion for IT Excellence with the CIO 100 Award for the fifth consecutive year.
Fortune Magazine named OD as one of the Top 100 Fastest-Growing Companies.
FleetOwner magazine honored OD with Fleet of the Year Award.
To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/old-dominion-named-top-ltl-carrier-for-6th-straight-year-300188817.html
Professional Services