Old Dominion Freight Line Reports 47.3% Increase in Fourth-Quarter Earnings Per Diluted Share to $0.81 on 21.7% Growth in Revenue
Quarterly Operating Ratio Improves 260 Basis Points to 84.4%
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. February 5, 2015 7:00 AM
?
Done
THOMASVILLE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. ( ODFL ) today announced financial   results for the three-month and twelve-month periods ended December 31,   2014. For the fourth quarter, revenue increased 21.7% to $721.0 million   from $592.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2013. Net income rose   48.2% to $69.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 from $47.2 million   for the comparable quarter in 2013. Earnings per diluted share were   $0.81 for the fourth quarter of 2014, an increase of 47.3% from $0.55   for the same prior-year quarter. The Company’s operating ratio improved   to 84.4% for the fourth quarter of 2014 from 87.0% for the fourth   quarter of 2013.
Revenue for 2014 increased 19.3% to $2.79 billion from $2.34 billion for   2013. Net income grew 29.8% for 2014 to $267.5 million from $206.1   million for 2013. Earnings per diluted share for 2014 increased 29.7% to   $3.10 from $2.39 for 2013. Old Dominion’s operating ratio improved to   84.2% for 2014 from 85.5% for 2013.
"Old Dominion completed another year of outstanding performance with   fourth-quarter results that included accelerated growth rates for   revenue, tonnage and earnings per diluted share," commented David S.   Congdon, President and Chief Executive Officer of Old Dominion. "Our   revenue growth once again reflects increased market share, which we   attribute to our employees' ability to provide superior on-time and   claims-free service at a fair and equitable price. The combination of   revenue growth and the 260 basis-point improvement in our operating   ratio contributed to the 47.3% improvement in earnings per diluted share   for the fourth quarter of 2014. In addition, our earnings per diluted   share benefited from the repurchase of $5.5 million of common stock   under our two-year, $200 million stock repurchase program that we   announced in November 2014.
"The Company's strong financial results for the quarter reflect improved   freight density and yield. LTL tons per day increased 19.8% for the   fourth quarter on a 17.1% increase in shipments and a 2.3% increase in   weight per shipment. LTL revenue per hundredweight increased 1.5%   despite the decline in fuel surcharge rates, decrease in length of haul   and increase in weight per shipment, each of which generally has the   effect of lowering this yield metric. Excluding fuel surcharges, revenue   per hundredweight increased 3.0%, as the pricing environment has   remained favorable.
"Our ability to increase market share and grow tonnage in 2014 was made   possible by our commitment to providing superior service while also   continuing to invest in our network, equipment, technology and, most   importantly, our people. To meet the demands of our existing business   and anticipated growth, we expanded our workforce significantly during   2014 with the addition of 2,370 full-time employees. While there are   typically increased costs and reduced productivity associated with new   employees, we believe our education and training programs help to   maximize our employees' ability to contribute to our long-term success.
"We invested heavily in the capacity and capabilities of our network,   equipment and technology in 2014, which has further differentiated Old   Dominion in a capacity-constrained industry. For full-year 2014, our   capital expenditures totaled $367.7 million, including $117.5 million   for real estate and service center expansion projects, $206.3 million   for tractors, trailers and other equipment and $43.9 million for   technology and other assets.
"For 2015, we expect our capital expenditures to total $463.3 million,   including planned expenditures of $164.7 million for real estate and   service center expansion projects, $271.8 million for tractors, trailers   and other equipment and $26.8 million for technology and other assets."
Mr. Congdon concluded, "Our fourth-quarter financial and operating   results allowed us to finish our record year on a very strong note. By   staying focused on delivering a superior service value to our customers,   while also making the necessary investments in our capacity and our   people, we believe we can continue to gain market share and produce   further profitable growth. We also expect the long-term execution of our   business model to allow us to continue our long-term record of growth in   earnings and shareholder value."
Old Dominion will hold a conference call to discuss this release today   at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. Investors will have the opportunity   to listen to the conference call live over the Internet by going to www.odfl.com .   Please log on at least 15 minutes early to register, download and   install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the   live broadcast, a replay will be available at this website shortly after   the call through March 5, 2015. A telephonic replay will also be   available through February 19, 2015 at (719) 457-0820, Confirmation   Number 8650231.
Forward-looking statements in this news release are made pursuant to the   safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act   of 1995. We caution the reader that such forward-looking statements   involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and   results to be materially different from those expressed or implied   herein, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) the   competitive environment with respect to industry capacity and pricing,   including the use of fuel surcharges, such that our total overall   pricing is sufficient to cover our operating expenses; (2) our ability   to collect fuel surcharges and the effectiveness of those fuel   surcharges in mitigating the impact of fluctuating prices for fuel and   other petroleum-based products; (3) the negative impact of any   unionization, or the passage of legislation or regulations that could   facilitate unionization, of our employees; (4) the challenges associated   with executing our growth strategy, including the inability to   successfully consummate and integrate any acquisitions; (5) changes in   our goals and strategies, which are subject to change at any time at our   discretion; (6) various economic factors such as economic recessions and   downturns in customers' business cycles and shipping requirements; (7)   increases in driver compensation or difficulties attracting and   retaining qualified drivers to meet freight demand; (8) our exposure to   claims related to cargo loss and damage, property damage, personal   injury, workers' compensation, group health and group dental, including   increased premiums, adverse loss development, increased self-insured   retention levels, and claims in excess of insured coverage levels; (9)   potential cost increases associated with healthcare legislation; (10)   the availability and cost of capital for our significant ongoing cash   requirements; (11) the availability and cost of new equipment and   replacement parts, including regulatory changes and supply constraints   that could impact the cost of these assets; (12) decreases in demand   for, and the value of, used equipment; (13) the availability and cost of   diesel fuel; (14) the costs and potential liabilities related to   compliance with, or violations of, existing or future governmental laws   and regulations, including environmental laws, engine emissions   standards, hours-of-service for our drivers, driver fitness requirements   and new safety standards for drivers and equipment; (15) the costs and   potential liabilities related to litigation and governmental   proceedings; (16) various risks arising from our international business   operations and relationships; (17) the costs and potential adverse   impact of non-compliance with rules issued by the Federal Motor Carrier   Safety Administration, including its Compliance, Safety, Accountability   initiative; (18) seasonal trends in the less-than-truckload industry,   including harsh weather conditions; (19) our dependence on key   employees; (20) the concentration of our stock ownership with the   Congdon family; (21) the costs and potential adverse impact associated   with future changes in accounting standards or practices; (22) the   impact of potential disruptions to our information technology systems or   our service center network; (23) damage to our reputation from the   misuse of social media; (24) dilution to existing shareholders caused by   any issuance of additional equity; and (25) other risks and   uncertainties described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K   and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our   forward-looking statements are based upon our beliefs and assumptions   using information available at the time the statements are made. We   caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking   statements (i) as these statements are neither a prediction nor a   guarantee of future events or circumstances and (ii) the assumptions,   beliefs, expectations and projections about future events may differ   materially from actual results. We undertake no obligation to publicly   update any forward-looking statement to reflect developments occurring   after the statement is made, except as otherwise required by law.
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. is a leading, less-than-truckload   (“LTL”), union-free motor carrier providing regional, inter-regional and   national LTL service and other logistics services from a single   integrated organization. In addition to its core LTL services, the   Company offers its customers a broad range of value-added services   including international freight forwarding, ground and air expedited   transportation, container delivery, truckload brokerage, supply chain   consulting, warehousing and consumer household pickup and delivery.
 
