Aegion Corporation Announces New $20 Million Share Repurchase Plan
Aegion Corporation March 9, 2015 8:02 PM
?
Done
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Aegion Corporation (Nasdaq Global Select Market: AEGN) today announced       that its Board of Directors has authorized a new program to repurchase       up to $20.0 million of the Company’s common stock during the balance of       the 2015 calendar year. Through previous share repurchase programs       completed in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Company repurchased       2,871,940 shares of the Company’s common stock for $60.0 million, or an       average price of $20.89 per share.
Aegion has engaged Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith as its exclusive broker to execute its stock purchase program under a trading       plan that has been established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the       Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Rule 10b5-1 permits Merrill Lynch to       continue to purchase shares on Aegion’s behalf even during periods when       Aegion is in possession of undisclosed earnings or other material,       non-public information about the Company pursuant to pre-arranged       parameters instituted during an open window period. Share repurchases       can be made on the open market or otherwise. The plan is effective until       December 31, 2015 or, if earlier, upon the repurchase of $20.0 million       of the Company’s stock under the plan.
Charles R. Gordon, President and Chief Executive Officer of Aegion,       said, “This share repurchase program reflects the Company’s record cash       position going into 2015 and our continued commitment to utilize excess       cash to enhance stockholder value. We also recognize the opportunity to       repurchase shares at prices we continue to believe are attractive.”
The new stock repurchase plan will be effected in accordance with Rule       10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which       includes certain restrictions including one with respect to the number       of shares that may be purchased in a single day (subject to certain       exceptions for block purchases) based on the average daily trading       volume of the Company’s shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market during       the four calendar weeks preceding the week in which a purchase is to be       effected.
As required under the federal securities laws, Aegion will report in       each of its quarterly reports and in its annual report, its repurchases       of shares by month for the most recently completed quarter, including       the average prices paid and the approximate dollar value of the shares       yet to be purchased under the program.
About Aegion Corporation
Aegion Corporation is a global leader in infrastructure protection       and maintenance, providing proprietary technologies and services: (i) to       protect against the corrosion of industrial pipelines; (ii) to       rehabilitate and strengthen water, wastewater, energy and mining piping       systems and buildings, bridges, tunnels and waterfront structures; and       (iii) to utilize integrated professional services in engineering,       procurement, construction, maintenance and turnaround services for a       broad range of energy related industries. More information about Aegion       can be found on our internet site at www.aegion.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe       harbor” for forward-looking statements. We make forward-looking       statements in this news release that represent our beliefs or       expectations about future events or financial performance. These       forward-looking statements are based on information currently available       to us and on management’s beliefs, assumptions, estimates or projections       and are not guarantees of future events or results. When used in this       document, the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “plan,”       “intend, “may,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify       forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of       identifying such statements. Such statements are subject to known and       unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred       to in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for       the year ended December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and       Exchange Commission on March 2, 2015 and in the Company’s subsequent       quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. In light of these risks, uncertainties       and assumptions, the forward-looking events may not occur. In addition,       our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated,       estimated, suggested or projected. Except as required by law, we do not       assume a duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result       of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should,       however, review additional disclosures made by us from time to time in       our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please       use caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All       forward-looking statements made by us in this news release are qualified by these cautionary statements.
Aegion® and the Aegion® logo are the registered       trademarks of Aegion Corporation and its affiliates.
Investment & Company Information
