AGCO Launches Fuse® Connected Services
Technology enabled services from AGCO dealers optimize customer uptime, improve farm efficiency and increase yields and profits
AGCO August 26, 2015 10:00 AM
?
Done
DULUTH, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AGCO ( AGCO ), a worldwide manufacturer and distributor of       agricultural equipment and infrastructure, announced today the launch of       Fuse Connected Services, a new customer offering through AGCO dealers.       Fuse Connected Services combines the right machines, technology, parts,       service and support to help customers optimize their operation and       maximize uptime through preventative maintenance, machine condition       monitoring and year-round consultation. The services will launch at       select AGCO dealers in North America and Western Europe in the third and       fourth quarters of 2015.
Supported by AGCO Parts, AGCO Service and AGCO Advanced Technology       Solutions (ATS), Fuse Connected Services is designed to help growers       improve overall farm efficiency by reducing maintenance and input costs,       improving yields and enabling more informed business decisions.
At launch, two to three service packages will be available, varying by       region, with different degrees of hands-on dealer support. Level one       enables customers to conduct self-monitoring, data transfer and       management plus set-up, calibration and operation support from the       global Fuse Contact Center via phone, live chat and email. Higher level       packages offer proactive, remote condition monitoring by dealer experts,       off-season inspections and reviews, operational consultation and       training. Specific service packages and pricing will vary based on       individual customer needs and dealer capabilities.
Many of the services will be enabled by a new release of AGCO’s       AgCommand telemetry product. A redesigned user interface and several new       features give monitoring specialists the information they need to       address and avoid costly machine downtime. Future releases of AgCommand       will further enhance AGCO dealers’ customer support and remote       monitoring capabilities.
“We at AGCO believe successful farming isn’t just about the best       machines or the most expensive seeds. It’s about smart management       practices that help you get the most out of your land and resources,”       said Eric Hansotia, senior vice president, Global Crop Cycle, ATS and       Dealer Tech Support at AGCO. “Fuse Connected Services will more fully       leverage the expertise of our dealers to help our customers do just       that, with the right combination of equipment, technology and service to       achieve the truly optimized farm.”
“Our dealer network is excited to introduce these new capabilities. We       will onboard our dealers in phases over the next two to three years,       with the full support of AGCO,” said Boris Schoepplein, vice president,       AGCO Parts and global Fuse Connected Services lead.
Services will be phased in gradually this year and next, starting with       Challenger and Gleaner dealers in North America, followed by Challenger       and Fendt dealers in Western Europe in the first half of 2016. Other       markets are expected to begin piloting and offering Fuse Connected       Services in 2016 and 2017.
Fuse Connected Services and Fuse Technologies are the key offerings of       AGCO’s overarching Fuse precision agriculture and precision machine       management initiative, supporting AGCO’s core brands in all regions.       AGCO is the first agriculture equipment manufacturer to embrace the open       approach to precision farming, respecting grower data privacy choices       and facilitating customer connections with third party service providers       through an increasing list of strategic partners.
For more information about Fuse Connected Services and AGCO’s precision       farming technologies, visit: www.AGCOtechnologies.com .
© 2015 AGCO Corporation. Fuse and AgCommand are registered trademarks of       AGCO Corporation.
About AGCO
AGCO (NYSE: AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and       distribution of agricultural equipment. AGCO supports more productive       farming through a full line of tractors, combines, hay tools, sprayers,       forage equipment, grain storage and protein production systems, seeding       and tillage implements and replacement parts. AGCO products are sold       through five core equipment brands, Challenger®, Fendt®, GSI®, Massey       Ferguson® and Valtra® and are distributed globally through a combination       of approximately 3,100 independent dealers and distributors in more than       140 countries. Founded in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA,       USA. In 2014, AGCO had net sales of $9.7 billion. For more information,       visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com . For       company news, information and events, please follow us on Twitter:       @AGCOCorp. For financial news on Twitter, please follow the hashtag       #AGCOIR.
AGCO: 25 years of identity, centuries of history
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150826005088/en/
Industrials
