Done
DULUTH, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AGCO ( AGCO ), a worldwide manufacturer and distributor of       agricultural equipment, is pleased to announce the launch of the AGCO       e-Sourcing platform to manage all production material sourcing projects       across the organization. For the first time, AGCO will utilize one       web-based platform to streamline and strengthen supplier collaboration       at a global level.
“AGCO continues to invest in transforming into a truly global purchasing       organization, and the launch of our new e-sourcing platform is another       significant milestone in our journey,” said Josip Tomasevic, AGCO VP       Purchasing and Materials & CPO. “The investments in tools and processes       to harmonize how we work together with our valued suppliers not only       strengthens our business relationships, but also enables us to more       efficiently deliver on our quality, cost competitiveness, innovation and       on-time delivery performance.” Under the Global Purchasing Excellence       initiative, AGCO is transforming to a global commodity management       organization by executing strategies to drive sustainable value through       AGCO’s supplier network.
Powered by SynerTrade software, the AGCO e-Sourcing platform was       designed with suppliers in mind. “We want to be the preferred customer       for our suppliers and we’re excited to have a strong partner with       SynerTrade to offer this platform to our suppliers,” expressed Jan       Theissen, AGCO Director Strategy & Methods Global Purchasing.       “SynerTrade’s software provides a powerful platform promote and foster       collaboration, efficiency and transparency, everywhere.” The utilization       of the new e-Sourcing platform in conjunction with AGCO’s award-winning       2015 Supplier (Risk) Management Solution enables AGCO’s commodity teams       globally to make decisions on the basis of supplier performance, as well       as potential compliance, economic, geopolitical and other risks.
And suppliers now have an easy-to-use platform that reduces complexity       and provides access to all global sourcing projects across all AGCO’s       brands and sites.
About AGCO
AGCO (NYSE: AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and       distribution of agricultural equipment. AGCO supports more productive       farming through a full line of tractors, combines, hay tools, sprayers,       forage equipment, grain storage and protein production systems, seeding       and tillage implements and replacement parts. AGCO products are sold       through five core equipment brands, Challenger®, Fendt®, GSI®, Massey       Ferguson® and Valtra® and are distributed globally through a combination       of approximately 3,100 independent dealers and distributors in more than       140 countries. Founded in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA,       USA. In 2014, AGCO had net sales of $9.7 billion. For more information,       visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com . For       company news, information and events, please follow us on Twitter:       @AGCOCorp. For financial news on Twitter, please follow the hashtag       #AGCOIR.
AGCO: 25 years of identity, centuries of history
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150921005203/en/
Industrials
