AGCO China Announces Strategy for China Rural Market Development
AGCO September 9, 2015 11:30 AM
?
AGCO Executives sign memorandum of understanding with Alibaba Group's Taobao business division to start …
SHANGHAI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AGCO ( AGCO ), a world-leading manufacturer and distributor of       agricultural equipment, today signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU)       with the Alibaba Group in Shanghai to start an       “Internet-plus-Agriculture” crossover program.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006229/en/
AGCO Senior Vice President, General Manager of Asia Pacific, Gary Collar       and Fred Yang, Vice President, Managing Director of AGCO China, attended       the signing ceremony, along with Frank Yu, Senior Director of Alibaba       Group’s Rural Taobao business division. Rural Taobao is responsible for       promoting rural e-commerce by removing bottlenecks in logistics and       information flow between urban and rural areas.
According to the MOU, AGCO products will be featured on Rural Taobao’s       online platform (cun.taobao.com), which is dedicated to offering       agricultural resources and consumer goods to rural villagers in China.       At the same time, both parties agreed to extend their cooperation to       cloud computing and big data, aiming to promote the development of       “modern agriculture” and “intelligent agriculture” in China. In       addition, both parties look forward to expanding the cooperation in       rural finance and other areas.
“We are entering a global phase of the ‘Internet Plus’ age. The merging       of internet and traditional industries is set to go deeper still and       will lead to the creation of new development formats,” said Mr. Collar.       “Agriculture as a primary industry will certainly be one of the key       forces to drive the economic transition and accelerate this       revolutionary innovation in the industrial model.”
The MOU objectives are aligned with government policy for the       development of the agricultural sector in China. According to the ‘Made       in China 2025’ initiative, approved by China’s State Council in March,       the agricultural machinery industry is one of several industry sectors       that will be prioritized under its “intelligent manufacturing program.”       This will draw on information technology, data technology and the       Internet of Things in the design, processing, testing and assembly of       agricultural machines. The Chinese government made clear its intention       to prioritize investment in agricultural and rural areas, develop the       pilot-financing and rental projects for large-sized agricultural       machinery, strongly encourage agricultural machinery leasing and press       forward with the reform of rural financing systems.
“This strong strategic cooperation between AGCO and Alibaba happens in       the context of economic development and is a pioneering act in the       agriculture machinery industry,” said Mr. Yang of AGCO China. “As a       responsible international company and with the favorable policies of the       Chinese government, AGCO is looking to adapt and promote the merging of       modern agriculture with mobile internet, big data, cloud computing and       the Internet of Things, and to stimulate innovation in modern       agricultural production, new business patterns and industry models.       Meanwhile, AGCO will further enhance our production quality, sales       efficiency and service so that our product information and services can       reach our customers in a more timely and complete manner.”
“China is entering an explosive growth period in information consumption       industries. It is estimated by 2015 the amount will exceed 3,200 billion       yuan, an increase of over 20% compared to 2014,” said Mr. Yu of Rural       Taobao. “We are honored to join hands with AGCO Corporation to bring       world-class agricultural machinery to rural villagers across China,       along with other areas of collaboration. This underscores our commitment       to connecting rural villagers with agricultural resources and consumer       goods that can help elevate their productivity and standard of living.”
About AGCO
AGCO (NYSE: AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and       distribution of agricultural equipment. AGCO supports more productive       farming through a full line of tractors, combines, hay tools, sprayers,       forage equipment, grain storage and protein production systems, seeding       and tillage implements and replacement parts. AGCO products are sold       through five core equipment brands, Challenger®, Fendt®, GSI®, Massey       Ferguson® and Valtra® and are distributed globally through a combination       of approximately 3,100 independent dealers and distributors in more than       140 countries. Founded in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA,       USA. In 2014, AGCO had net sales of $9.7 billion. For more information,       visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com .
AGCO: 25 years of identity, centuries of history
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006229/en/
