AGCO Opens New Manufacturing Base in Changzhou
USD 300 Million invested in factories in China to date
AGCO September 9, 2015 10:00 AM
?
AGCO Executives and Local Government Officials Celebrate the Grand Opening of AGCO's New Manufacturing …
SHANGHAI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AGCO ( AGCO ), a world-leading manufacturer and distributor focusing       on agricultural equipment, today held a press conference to announce the       opening of its brand new manufacturing base in Changzhou. To date, AGCO       has invested USD 300 million in factories in China. “China is one of the       world’s largest farm equipment markets and AGCO has attached great       importance to the market,” said Martin Richenhagen, Chairman, President       and Chief Executive Officer of AGCO. “The opening of the new Changzhou       location will further enhance our R&D and manufacturing capacity in       China, and is a critical step in the implementation of our development       strategy for the Asia Pacific region.”
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006149/en/
Since entering China in 2001, AGCO has taken a series of measures to       expand the business and benefit local customers. The establishment of       the new Changzhou factory shows its continuous confidence and commitment       to the Chinese market. The new site will serve both domestic as well as       export markets with its professional products and covers a total area of       nearly 200,000 square meters. Established as a manufacturing and R&D base with state of the art technology, the company aims to gradually       reach an annual capacity of 20,000 tractors, 30,000 engines and 40,000       rear axles and transmissions, and further promote the localization of       product manufacturing in China.
The launch of the new Changzhou factory is undoubtedly of great       significance. “AGCO has already invested USD 300 million into existing       and new manufacturing sites in China. We are now operating a total of       five manufacturing sites in Changzhou, Shanghai, Daqing and Yanzhou       respectively across the country and employ more than 1,500 people,” Gary       Collar, AGCO Senior Vice President and General Manager of Asia Pacific       explained. “Our whole-machine and spare parts equipment produced in       Changzhou are for the domestic market, but are also exported to other       Asian and international markets. We aim to offer comprehensive solutions       for professional farmers feeding the world and to promote the       agricultural mechanization progress of China and the whole world.”
“Changzhou is a strategic location for our long-term development. The       geographical advantage and the policy support and incentives to the       industry, led to its advantages for establishing manufacturing       facilities and the supply chain,” said Fred Yang, AGCO Vice President       and Managing Director of China, “The Changzhou site will not only serve       the domestic market, but also become a major global hub of AGCO’s brand       new product series - 'Global Series' 70 to 130 hp tractor range. It will       provide more opportunities for AGCO to increase its production capacity       and develop lean production efficiencies.”
There is a keen demand for high-end agricultural machinery products in       China but with insufficient supply, AGCO has invested strategically in       China and aims to become the premium international agricultural       equipment supplier that leads the agricultural equipment market trends       of the country. The company now operates four key brands in China,       Massey Ferguson, Valtra, Dafeng King, and GSI, and continuously       introduces and manufactures premium medium and high end products, in       order to provide more mature and feasible solutions for users.
In terms of products, the MF2204 (formerly known as MF7624) is a star       tractor series from the Massey Ferguson product line, which features       consistently stable and highly efficient performance. Now, the 220 hp       and 240 hp better-configured products will launch into the market to       provide a more efficient working performance and better driving comfort.       Massey Ferguson proudly provides hay and forage harvester products       highly prized in China. Its stable and highly efficient product lines,       including the MF-WR9700 series self-propelled windrowers, the MF1800       series small square balers, and the MF2200 series large square balers,       guarantee high quality harvesting operations for customers. MF-T7 and       4YZ-3A are star products of our fleet of Combine and Harvesters of       Massey Ferguson and Dafeng King. The new Changzhou factory will build       the newly developed “Global Series” 70 to 130 hp tractor range which       targets the global market. The series is based on the 168 years’ of       Massey Ferguson production experience and adopts the modular new design       concept and global strategy of parts purchasing, aiming to meet the       Chinese users’ needs with stronger power, higher fuel economy, richer       product configuration and a more comfortable operator environment. The       ‘Global Series’ will become an important part of AGCO’s Chinese product       lineup to showcase its promise to provide all-around high tech solutions       continuously.
AGCO is gradually implementing the upgrade and tests for a full set of       agricultural machinery products targeting the China market, to ensure       the products comply with the Chinese emission standards at Phase III for       non-road motor machinery.
In addition, AGCO is making sustained efforts to further strengthen its       dealer performance management. Besides its new development initiatives       on brand image, the channel strategy this year will focus more on the       ’quality’ of sales and service standard of dealers, and AGCO will       implement stricter qualification requirements, supervision and more       comprehensive training to further promote the integrated capability of       dealers to better serve the end users.
As a key aspect of total solutions, AGCO Finance has developed steadily       since launching in China early last year, and has already penetrated       more than 10% percent of AGCO’s sales in China. As one of the world’s       leaders in precision agriculture technology, AGCO unveiled “Fuse       Technologies” in 2013, which is a total solution of precision       agriculture for a new generation. Utilizing Fuse Technologies solutions,       farmers can realize the optimization of operational efficiency and       logistics management in the whole crop production cycle and be able to       tightly integrate farm assets, achieve higher output, less cost and       generate greater farm income.
When talking about the development strategy in China, Fred Yang stated,       ”AGCO’s China strategy includes growing domestic sales and market share       by providing full solutions, leveraging global technology and resources       to produce high quality and competitive machines for global       distribution, sourcing competitively for global operations, and building       one team with strong ownership, energy, transparency and a lean culture.       Our vision is to become a leading global agricultural machinery       manufacturer in China with the best technology, quality and innovative       solutions.” So far, AGCO’s business in China is growing steadily, from a       provider with product sales and after-sales services only to a total       solution provider, to better serve the Chinese farmers and promote the       modernization of agricultural machinery in China.
China, as an agricultural country, has not only a tremendous       agricultural machinery market, but also the supportive government       policies and labor force resources, which are beneficial to the brands       in the industry. In response to the “new normal” period characterized by       a slower growth rate and restructuring in the agricultural machinery       industry, the central government issued several new policies to boost       the development of agriculture and improve the security of grain       production earlier this year. According to the ‘Made in China 2025’       initiative, the agricultural machinery industry, in addition to eight       others, will come under the scope of support as part of the “intelligent       manufacturing” program which involves a total intelligent approach to       the design, processing, testing and assembly of agricultural machines.       Also, according to the document No. 1 of the Central Government issued       in 2015, the government has made it clear that it will prioritize the       investment in agriculture and rural areas, develop the pilot financing       and rental projects for large-sized agricultural machinery, strongly       encourage agricultural machinery leasing, and press forward with the       reforms of the rural financing systems.
About AGCO
AGCO (NYSE: AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and       distribution of agricultural equipment. AGCO supports more productive       farming through a full line of tractors, combines, hay tools, sprayers,       forage equipment, grain storage and protein production systems, seeding       and tillage implements and replacement parts. AGCO products are sold       through five core equipment brands, Challenger®, Fendt®, GSI®, Massey       Ferguson® and Valtra® and are distributed globally through a combination       of approximately 3,100 independent dealers and distributors in more than       140 countries. Founded in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA,       USA. In 2014, AGCO had net sales of $9.7 billion. For more information,       visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com .
AGCO: 25 years of identity, centuries of history
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006149/en/
