NRG Yield, Inc. Announces Pricing of $250 Million in Aggregate Principal Amount of 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2020
NRG Yield, Inc. June 23, 2015 11:25 PM
?
Done
PRINCETON, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
NRG Yield, Inc. (NYSE:NYLD, NYLD.A) ("NRG Yield" or the "Company") has       priced its previously announced offering of $250 million in aggregate       principal amount of its 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2020 (the       "Notes"). NRG Yield has granted the initial purchasers the option to       purchase up to an additional $37.5 million in aggregate principal amount       of the Notes. The Notes will be issued at a price equal to 100% of the       principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any. The Notes will       be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior basis by NRG Yield       LLC and NRG Yield Operating LLC ("Yield Operating LLC"), the direct and       indirect subsidiaries of the Company, respectively. NRG Yield will lend       the net proceeds from this offering to Yield Operating LLC, and Yield       Operating LLC intends to use a portion of the proceeds to repay       outstanding indebtedness under the revolving credit facility and a       portion of the project indebtedness associated with the Company’s Alta X       and Alta XI wind facilities. Any remaining proceeds will be used for       general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of assets from NRG       Energy, Inc. or other third parties, although NRG Yield does not       currently have any agreements to do so in place. The offering of the       Notes is expected to close on June 29, 2015, subject to the satisfaction       of customary closing conditions.
The Notes will be convertible, under certain circumstances, into cash,       shares of NRG Yield's Class C common stock or a combination thereof at       NRG Yield's election. The initial conversion rate will be 36.3636 shares       of Class C common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes       (representing an initial conversion price of approximately $27.50 per       Class C common share), subject to customary adjustments. The initial       conversion rate represents approximately a 25% premium to the public       offering price per share of $22.00 of the Class C common stock on June       23, 2015. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on       June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 2015. The       Notes will mature on June 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or       converted in accordance with their terms. Prior to the close of business       on the business day immediately preceding December 1, 2019, the Notes       will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and       during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the close of       business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the       maturity date.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, BofA Merrill Lynch,       Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC are acting as the joint book-running managers for the       offering. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities       Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and       Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA), Inc. are acting as co-managers for the       offering.
The Notes and related guarantees are being offered only to qualified       institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act       of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Notes and related       guarantees have not been registered under the Securities Act or the       securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold       in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from       the registration requirements. This notice does not constitute an offer       to sell the Notes, nor a solicitation for an offer to purchase the Notes.
Safe Harbor Disclosure
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning       of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the       Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are       subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and include NRG       Yield’s expectations regarding the anticipated benefits of the       acquisition of Desert Sunlight and typically can be identified by the       use of words such as “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,”       “plan,” “believe” and similar terms. Although NRG Yield believes that       its expectations are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these       expectations will prove to have been correct, and actual results may       vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ       materially from those contemplated above include, among others, general       economic conditions, hazards customary in the power industry, weather       conditions, competition in wholesale power markets, the volatility of       energy and fuel prices, failure of customers to perform under contracts,       changes in the wholesale power markets, changes in government regulation       of markets, the condition of capital markets generally, our ability to       access capital markets, unanticipated outages at our generation       facilities, adverse results in current and future litigation, failure to       successfully close the Desert Sunlight acquisition (including receipt of       third party consents and regulatory approvals), failure to identify or       successfully execute other acquisitions, NRG Yield’s ability to enter       into new contracts as existing contracts expire, NRG Yield’s ability to       acquire assets from NRG Energy, Inc. or third parties, NRG Yield’s       ability to close drop-down transactions, and NRG Yield’s ability to       maintain and grow its quarterly dividends.
NRG Yield undertakes no obligation to update or revise any       forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,       future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG Yield’s actual results to differ materially from those       contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news       release should be considered in connection with information regarding       risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG Yield’s future results       included in NRG Yield’s filings with the Securities and Exchange       Commission.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150623006729/en/
Utility Industry
