NRG and NRG Yield to Hold Investor Call on September 18, 2015
NRG Energy, Inc. September 14, 2015 4:30 PM
?
Done
PRINCETON, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
NRG Energy, Inc. ( NRG ) and NRG Yield, Inc. (NYSE: NYLD, NYLD.A)       will hold an investor call and provide an update on business operations       and strategic direction on Friday, September 18, 2015 at 9:00am Eastern.
A live webcast of the conference call, including associated presentation       materials, can be accessed through NRG’s website at http://www.nrg.com and clicking on “Webcasts & Presentations” under the “Investors” section       at the bottom of the home page and via NRG Yield’s website at http://www.nrgyield.com and clicking on “Presentations & Webcasts.” The webcast will be archived       on the site for those unable to listen in real time.
About NRG
NRG is leading a customer-driven change in the U.S. energy industry by       delivering cleaner and smarter energy choices, while building on the       strength of the nation’s largest and most diverse competitive power       portfolio. A Fortune 250 company, we create value through reliable and       efficient conventional generation while driving innovation in solar and       renewable power, electric vehicle ecosystems, carbon capture technology       and customer-centric energy solutions. Our retail electricity providers       serve almost 3 million residential and commercial customers throughout       the country. More information is available at www.nrg.com .       Connect with NRG Energy on Facebook and follow us on Twitter @nrgenergy .
About NRG Yield
NRG Yield owns a diversified portfolio of contracted renewable and       conventional generation and thermal infrastructure assets in the U.S.,       including fossil fuel, solar and wind power generation facilities that       provide the capacity to support more than one million American homes and       businesses. Our thermal infrastructure assets provide steam, hot water       and/or chilled water, and in some instances electricity, to commercial       businesses, universities, hospitals and governmental units in ten       locations.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150914006153/en/
Utility Industry
