Mark 'Markiplier' Fischbach Joins Red Giant Entertainment's Board of Directors
YouTube Superstar Brings Extraordinary New Media Expertise To Board
Red Giant Entertainment Inc November 12, 2014 8:58 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
ORLANDO, FL--(Marketwired - November 12, 2014) -  Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ), an innovative Intellectual Property company specializing in high quality characters and content for use in a variety of media and entertainment, is thrilled to announce that Mark Fischbach has joined the Company's Board of Directors.
Fischbach, who is widely known across the internet as 'Markiplier,' has built a YouTube fan base of more than 4.2 million subscribers on his gaming comedy channel 'markiplierGAME.' To date, his channel has generated more than one billion views, putting him in a rarefied group of 'YouTube Billionaires' that includes such household names as Beyonce, Justin Bieber, and Katy Perry.
For the week of November 7, Fischbach's channel was the 27th most viewed channel on YouTube and 15th most-viewed US-based, ranking higher than channels like College Humor, Comedy Central and Rihanna. YouTube, a Google company, is the third most popular website in the world.
Since July 2012, Fischbach has held monthly livestreams for charities, in which he sets a fundraising goal and plays continually until that goal is met. To date, he has raised $482,479 for charity. The 'MarkiplierGAME' channel is affiliated with Maker Studios, a multi-channel network that in March was purchased by The Walt Disney Company in a deal valued at up to $950 million.
Next year, Fischbach will make his silver screen debut in Lionsgate's THE SMOSH MOVIE, a big screen spin-off of YouTube's popular 'Smosh' comedy channel starring Anthony Padilla and Ian Hecox. 
"We are glad to have Mr. Fischbach joining our Board of Directors," said Benny Powell, CEO of Red Giant Entertainment. "He brings much-needed new media savvy and experience to our team as we make moves into our transmedia landscape. We have no doubt he will prove to be an invaluable member of the team."
Red Giant provides news and updates at the following online locations. http://redgiantentertainment.com  and on https://www.facebook.com/RedGiantEntertainment
ABOUT RED GIANT ENTERTAINMENT INC.
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ) is a Nevada corporation that specializes in intellectual property (IP) development for multiple media platforms and transmedia propagation. The cornerstone of this development is based around the more than three dozen online and print graphic novel properties in various stages of production as well as the cast of thousands of characters from those series. These properties have a readership that numbers in the millions globally. Some of these properties are actively in development into other media such as movies, video games, television, novels, toys, apparel, applications, etc. through either direct production or licensing agreements.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements." Any statements that are not statements of historical fact, including but not limited to statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "look forward," "estimates" and similar expressions, should be considered to be forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, to include acquisition, production, marketing, distribution, competition with related patent, trademark and license issues involving contractual obligations and concessions. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, except as required by applicable law. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release should be read in conjunction with all of the reports that the Company has previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for financial and other information about it. The references to the websites http://redgiantentertainment.com  and www.facebook.com  have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
Arts & Entertainment
