Mining For Opportunities, These Three Stocks Could Be Unearthing Gold
November 25, 2014 8:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
Boca Raton, FL / ACCESSWIRE / November 25, 2014 / Content is king and data is the gold rush of the millennial generation. Over the years big players like Google and Yahoo have acquired several high traffic publishers. The goal is always traffic and consumer data.
A new business model based on content aggregation emerged and saw its first success with FlipBoard.
Ubiquity Inc. ( UBIQ ) took the same approach recently and announced their latest product (currently in pre-launch testing) Sprocket. The applications aims to provide a one-stop Interactive view of Social Media, News Sources and other content Aggregators.
In the last week shares of UBIQ pulled up more than from a low of $0.75 to $2.70 (+360%) all the while trading more than 2 million shares in less than 7 trading sessions. UBIQ closed at $2.06 yesterday, 26% below the day high prompting many to question the recent momentum.
(for the latest trend analysis on UBIQ please visit http://pennypickinsider.com/market-scan/?symbol=ubiq )
In the content arena, Red Giant Entertainment ( REDG ), has been pushing forward with plans to move into high quality characters and content for use in a variety of media and entertainment. The company previously operated in the mining industry before re-aligning its strategy towards the Digital Content industry.
REDG traded more than 334 million shares in the last 4 trading sessions with more than 223 million shares traded yesterday only. Share price up-ticked from $0.0012 to $0.0028 (+233%). Current resistance level stands at $0.0035. However the possibility of a retraction following the recent momentum stands.
(for the latest trading trend analysis on REDG please visit http://pennypickinsider.com/market-scan/?symbol=redg )
In the traditional mining industry, Glenmark Capital ( GLRKF ), a uranium exploration company with interests in Canada, has traded consistently from under $0.30 all the way to $0.64 in less than a month. The company recently received analytical results of surface samples taken under the direction of Dave Billard P.Geo. from the Molly Radioactive Zone during a site visit in October 2014.
GLRKF trades on several stock exchanges namely the Canadian TSX.V under symbol GLM and the German Frankfurt exchange under symbol 17G. With the stock trading more than 10 million shares in the last month and share price doubling in the same period, the question as to the recent pullback appears.
(for the latest trading trend analysis on GLRKF please visit http://pennypickinsider.com/market-scan/?symbol=glrkf )
ABOUT US:
PennyPickinsider.com monitors and scans the markets for stock related signals as well as any external factors that might bring trading opportunities. Through a vast network of IR professionals PennyPickInsider.com is often in the know of several large investor awareness campaigns being deployed.
Timing is everything when trading Penny Stocks. Subscribe to the www.Pennypickinsider.com newsletter and start receiving daily alerts.
Subscribe Here: http://www.PennyPickinsider.com/
Legal Disclaimer
Except for the historical information presented herein, matters discussed in this article contain forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. CHRONOS MEDIA GROUP which owns www.Pennypickinsider.com, is not registered with any financial or securities regulatory authority, and does not provide nor claims to provide investment advice or recommendations to readers of this release. CHRONOS MEDIA GROUP which owns www.Pennypickinsider.com, may from time to time have a position in the securities mentioned herein and may increase or decrease such positions without notice. For making specific investment decisions, readers should seek their own advice. CHRONOS MEDIA GROUP which owns www.Pennypickinsider.com, may be compensated for its services in the form of cash-based compensation or equity securities in the companies it writes about, or a combination of the two.
CONTACT:
