New Red Giant Entertainment Video Update
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. October 7, 2015 8:00 AM
Content preferences
Done
ORLANDO, Fla., Oct.  07, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ), an innovative Intellectual Property development company specializing in high quality characters and content for use in a variety of media and entertainment, announced today a new shareholder video update hosted by the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Benny Powell.
"There has been a flurry of activity recently, and as the launch of our ad-supported Giant-Size comic line draws closer, we wanted to take a moment to explain things in a short video," stated Powell.
This new video update, as well as all previous shareholder video reports produced by the company, can be found at the following web address: http://redgiantentertainment.com/videoreports    
Red Giant provides news and updates at the following online locations.
http://redgiantentertainment.com  and on  https://www.facebook.com/RedGiantEntertainment
ABOUT RED GIANT ENTERTAINMENT INC.
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ) is a Nevada corporation that specializes in intellectual property (IP) development for multiple media platforms and transmedia propagation. The cornerstone of this development is based around the more than three dozen online and print graphic novel properties in various stages of production as well as the cast of thousands of characters from those series. These properties have a readership that numbers in the millions globally. Some of these properties are actively in development into other media such as movies, video games, television, novels, toys, apparel, applications, etc. through either direct production or licensing agreements.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements." Any statements that are not statements of historical fact, including but not limited to statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "look forward," "estimates" and similar expressions, should be considered to be forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, to include acquisition, production, marketing, distribution, competition with related patent, trademark and license issues involving contractual obligations and concessions. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, except as required by applicable law. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release should be read in conjunction with all of the reports that the Company has previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for financial and other information about it. The references to the websites http://redgiantentertainment.com  and www.facebook.com  have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
Stocks & Offerings
