Red Giant Entertainment Acquires Red Giant Media
Schoof/Robbins-Founded Film Company Now Under REDG Umbrella 
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. September 28, 2015 1:54 PM
Content preferences
Done
ORLANDO, Fla., Sept.  28, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ), an innovative Intellectual Property company specializing in high quality characters and content for use in a variety of media and entertainment, announced today its acquisition of all outstanding shares of Red Giant Media, LLC, a New York company.
Red Giant Media, LLC is a production company founded by award-winning producers Aimee Schoof and Isen Robbins.  Red Giant Media holds various television and film rights to numerous properties including: Shockwave Darkside, Omphalos, Niko: Journey to Magika, Wayward Sons, and more.  Schoof and Robbins have served as directors on the REDG board and executives of the Company since 2013, and will continue to take a leading role in the production of all Red Giant Entertainment film projects.
"As we fast approach the launch of our eagerly-awaited GIANT-SIZE line and ramp up our film and television development slate, we feel it is now necessary to bring more of our resources under one umbrella," stated Red Giant Entertainment CEO Benny Powell. "The acquisition of Red Giant Media, a company that actually helped to inspire our founding, is one giant leap towards that goal.”
Prior to Red Giant Media, Robbins and Schoof founded Intrinsic Value Films in 1997 with the goal of producing high-quality films on a reasonable budget, and have produced more than thirty movies under that label. Their latest film, EXPERIMENTER starring Peter Sarsgaard and Winona Ryder, will be released in U.S. theaters on October 16th by Magnolia Pictures.
“Our recently-announced partnership with Herohelix is just one of many examples of the buildup we have in place for our multi-media expansion,” said Robbins.  “We are incredibly excited about the future of Red Giant Entertainment.”   
Red Giant provides news and updates at the following online locations.
http://redgiantentertainment.com  and on https://www.facebook.com/RedGiantEntertainment
ABOUT RED GIANT ENTERTAINMENT INC.
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ) is a Nevada corporation that specializes in intellectual property (IP) development for multiple media platforms and transmedia propagation. The cornerstone of this development is based around the more than three dozen online and print graphic novel properties in various stages of production as well as the cast of thousands of characters from those series. These properties have a readership that numbers in the millions globally. Some of these properties are actively in development into other media such as movies, video games, television, novels, toys, apparel, applications, etc. through either direct production or licensing agreements.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements." Any statements that are not statements of historical fact, including but not limited to statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "look forward," "estimates" and similar expressions, should be considered to be forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, to include acquisition, production, marketing, distribution, competition with related patent, trademark and license issues involving contractual obligations and concessions. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, except as required by applicable law. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release should be read in conjunction with all of the reports that the Company has previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for financial and other information about it. The references to the websites http://redgiantentertainment.com  and www.facebook.com  have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
Red Giant Entertainment
