Content preferences
Done
ORLANDO, Fla., Aug.  19, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ), an innovative Intellectual Property development company specializing in high quality characters and content for use in a variety of media and entertainment, posted their largest shareholder video to date with several key announcements.
The nearly two hour long video answered numerous investor and fan questions by Red Giant CEO, Benny Powell and Red Giant COO, David Campiti.  The topics revealed several key facets including:
The status of the Giant-Size Line
Advertising revenue
Financial status of the company
New revenue streams explained
Movie and digital media expansions
Marketing expansions
Production schedules and processes
A host of other miscellaneous questions
“We strive for transparency, and these video updates are the easiest method,” said Benny Powell, CEO, Red Giant Entertainment. “The entertainment industry is one of the sexiest, but least understood businesses out there.  So we hope this can give better insight into how things are working as we prepare for our big launch, just a few short months away.”
The video can be accessed directly on Youtube at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYPkacKIX3g
As well as on the company sites http://redgiantentertainment.com and on https://www.facebook.com/RedGiantEntertainment where the company also makes updates regularly.
ABOUT RED GIANT ENTERTAINMENT INC.
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ) is a Nevada corporation that specializes in intellectual property (IP) development for multiple media platforms and transmedia propagation. The cornerstone of this development is based around the more than three dozen online and print graphic novel properties in various stages of production as well as the cast of thousands of characters from those series. These properties have a readership that numbers in the millions globally. Some of these properties are actively in development into other media such as movies, video games, television, novels, toys, apparel, applications, etc. through either direct production or licensing agreements.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements." Any statements that are not statements of historical fact, including but not limited to statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "look forward," "estimates" and similar expressions, should be considered to be forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, to include acquisition, production, marketing, distribution, competition with related patent, trademark and license issues involving contractual obligations and concessions. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, except as required by applicable law. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release should be read in conjunction with all of the reports that the Company has previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for financial and other information about it. The references to the websites http://redgiantentertainment.com  and www.facebook.com  have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
Stocks & Offerings
