Red Giant Entertainment to Host Live Shareholder Video Report on December 4, 2014
CEO Benny Powell to Discuss Latest News and Answer Questions
Red Giant Entertainment Inc November 26, 2014 5:00 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
ORLANDO, FL--(Marketwired - November 26, 2014) - Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ), an innovative Intellectual Property company specializing in high quality characters and content for use in a variety of media and entertainment, announced that it will host a live Shareholder Video Report on Thursday, December 4, 2014 at 7pm ET.
Red Giant CEO Benny Powell will provide important context on the latest news coming out of the Company and details on major new developments being made. Additionally, Powell will be answering shareholder questions on the current status of the GIANT-SIZE line and much more, which has been pushed back due to unfortunate distribution issues that have arisen.
"We have been hard at work on numerous fronts, and we will be sharing a lot of our immense successes in the days and weeks ahead," said Red Giant CEO, Benny Powell. "We aren't going to sugar-coat that we are disappointed we were unable to achieve our desired launch window of December for the Giant-Size line. We have numerous books created that were ready to go, but circumstances beyond our control within our distribution network have necessitated a delay for a spring launch. While this is not what we hoped for, there are bigger events transpiring that provide a silver lining to this news, which we hope to share soon. Quite literally we are in the final stages of a new partnership deal which changes the game, and this delayed launch will actually prove overall beneficial."
Shareholders and interested parties are invited to submit their succinct written questions by email to info@redgiantentertainment.com for consideration. On December 4th at 7pm ET, CEO Powell will answer as many as possible via a live video communication located at the following URL:
Red Giant provides news and updates at the following online locations. http://redgiantentertainment.com and on https://www.facebook.com/RedGiantEntertainment
ABOUT RED GIANT ENTERTAINMENT INC.
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. ( REDG ) is a Nevada corporation that specializes in intellectual property (IP) development for multiple media platforms and transmedia propagation. The cornerstone of this development is based around the more than three dozen online and print graphic novel properties in various stages of production as well as the cast of thousands of characters from those series. These properties have a readership that numbers in the millions globally. Some of these properties are actively in development into other media such as movies, video games, television, novels, toys, apparel, applications, etc. through either direct production or licensing agreements.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release may contain "forward-looking statements." Any statements that are not statements of historical fact, including but not limited to statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "look forward," "estimates" and similar expressions, should be considered to be forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, to include acquisition, production, marketing, distribution, competition with related patent, trademark and license issues involving contractual obligations and concessions. The Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, except as required by applicable law. The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This press release should be read in conjunction with all of the reports that the Company has previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for financial and other information about it. The references to the websites http://redgiantentertainment.com  and www.facebook.com  have been provided as a convenience, and the information contained on such websites is not incorporated by reference into this press release.
Stocks & Offerings
