Content preferences
Done
ST. LOUIS, MO--(Marketwired - Dec 4, 2014) -  Murphy Analytics (MA) has published an Initiation Report on Red Giant Entertainment Inc. (
OTC PINK
:
REDG
). The report contains a discussion of REDG's business operations, market dynamics, financials, potential cash flows and risks. The report is available at: http://www.murphyanalytics.com/uploads/REDG_Initiation.pdf .  
Analyst Patrick Murphy notes in the report: "Driven by many factors, there is a trend towards advertising that is more targeted and personalized; and within this broad market opportunity, REDG seeks to deliver a target market demographic that is appealing to a range of active advertisers... as outlined in the Company's corporate description, and as evidenced by the recent announcement that REDG's feature film NIKO: JOURNEY TO MAGIKA is scheduled for release on 12/12/14 exclusively on HULU, REDG is proving that the Company IP is serving as a platform to launch opportunities across multiple media, mirroring the strategy of some of the industry largest and most successful operators."
About Red Giant Entertainment, Inc.
Red Giant Entertainment Inc. specializes in intellectual property (IP) development for multi-media platforms and transmedia propagation. 
About Murphy Analytics
Utilizing institutional caliber, fundamental analysis, Murphy Analytics helps readers become more informed about equities without extensive analyst coverage. Murphy Analytics LLC is owned by Patrick J. Murphy, who has nearly 20 years of capital markets experience, providing institutional investment and transaction analysis across a range of asset classes including microcap equities, commercial real estate debt and equity, municipal derivatives and public finance, venture capital, fixed income, CMBS and mortgage REITs.
Disclosure: MA was compensated $5,000 in advance of the publication of this report. Neither MA nor the analyst owns or trades the shares of covered companies. Statements herein may contain forward-looking statements and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties affecting results. MA provides no assurance as to the subject company's plans or ability to effect proposed actions and cannot project capabilities, intent, resources, or experience. This report is neither a solicitation to buy nor an offer to sell securities and is to be used for informational purposes only and should not be used as basis for investment decisions. MA is not an investment advisor or broker/dealer and this report does not provide investment advice. 
Finance
