NORCROSS, GA--(Marketwired - Jul 9, 2015) - VEGA BIOFUELS, INC. (OTC PINK: VGPR) announced today that it has rescheduled the Company's Open House to showcase how Bio-Coal is manufactured. The event was originally scheduled for May 30, 2015 and was postponed. The Open House is scheduled for noon on Saturday, August 15, 2015. Those interested in participating in the Open House are required to register for the event by going to Vega's website, vegabiofuels.com or by sending an email request to info@vegabiofuels.com. Once registered, attendees will receive an information sheet outlining the agenda for the event.  "We are looking forward to finally hosting everyone at the Virginia facility and showing how our Bio-Coal is manufactured. Our plan is to be in full production during the event and our shareholders will be able to ask questions about the production process and take home a Bio-Coal sample," stated Michael K. Molen, Chairman/CEO of Vega Biofuels, Inc. "The accident set us back a bit, but we look forward to providing the opportunity for our shareholders and those that follow our Company to have an inside look at our process. We will have refreshments and a question and answer session as well."  Vega currently markets a green-energy product called Bio-Coal. Bio-Coal has a high energy density of up to 13,000 BTUs/Lb and is considered a renewable energy fuel that meets the Renewable Portfolio Standards and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) in the United States. Bio-Coal can be burned in existing coal-fired power plants around the world as an alternative to traditional coal. Certain statements in this release constitute forward-looking statements or statements which may be deemed or construed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "forecast," "plan," "project," "intend," "expect," "should," "would," and similar expressions and all statements, which are not historical facts, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause the Company's actual results, performance (finance or operating) or achievements to differ from future results, performance (financing and operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.