NORCROSS, GA--(Marketwired - Aug 5, 2015) - VEGA BIOFUELS, INC. (OTC PINK: VGPR) announced today that the Company will expand its marketing effort in the United States in order to capitalize on the EPA's Clean Power Plan. Vega Biofuels currently markets a green-energy product called Bio-Coal. Bio-Coal has a high energy density of up to 13,000 BTUs/Lb and is considered a renewable energy fuel that meets the Renewable Portfolio Standards and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) in the United States. Bio-Coal can be burned in existing coal-fired power plants around the world as a renewable alternative to traditional coal. Earlier this week, President Obama laid out his plan to cut carbon pollution in the United States by reducing carbon dioxide emissions created by coal-fired power plants. Vega's Bio-Coal product is a clean renewable energy source that can be burned in existing coal-fired power plants and reduce the amount of carbon emission currently created by traditional coal. This product is available today. The President stated that cutting carbon pollution from power plants will spark innovation and drive investment in clean energy technologies and energy efficiency that will create jobs and save families money. This is the biggest step the U.S. has ever taken to combat climate change. The Plan sets the first ever carbon pollution standards for power plants, while providing states and utilities with the flexibility they need to meet those standards. The Obama administration has secured more than $4 billion in private sector commitments and actions to scale up clean energy innovations like the Company's Bio-Coal that reduces carbon pollution. "To date, our marketing efforts have been in other parts of the world that have mandates in place for the use of renewable energy sources to lower carbon emissions. As a result of The President's announcement of the Clean Power Plan, we will increase our marketing efforts to include power companies in the United States", stated Michael K. Molen, Chairman/CEO of Vega Biofuels, Inc. "This is a great opportunity for our Company. Our Bio-Coal product is something that can not only reduce carbon emissions created by coal-fired power plants, but can save existing power plants from being closed as a result of the Plan because our product can be used just like traditional coal without creating carbon pollution, thus saving existing jobs and creating new opportunities." Certain statements in this release constitute forward-looking statements or statements which may be deemed or construed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "forecast," "plan," "project," "intend," "expect," "should," "would," and similar expressions and all statements, which are not historical facts, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause the Company's actual results, performance (finance or operating) or achievements to differ from future results, performance (financing and operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.