Vega Biofuels Sets Date for Shareholder Conference Call
Company to Discuss Current Status and Future Direction
Vega Biofuels April 1, 2015 9:45 AM
?
NORCROSS, GA--(Marketwired - Apr 1, 2015) - VEGA BIOFUELS, INC. (
OTC PINK
:
VGPR
) announced today that it will hold a Shareholder Conference Call to discuss the Company's current projects.
The call is scheduled for Sunday, April 12, 2015 at 7:00 pm EDT and is open to the public. Shareholders are invited to email their questions in advance to info@vegabiofuels.com . Call-in information will be posted on the Company's website, vegabiofuels.com a few days before the call. 
"I know there are a lot of questions about what, where, and how the Company is doing and I look forward to responding to those questions," stated Michael K. Molen, Chairman/CEO of Vega Biofuels, Inc. "In the past, we have just responded to the emailed questions. This time we will try to take some calls live to allow shareholders follow up questions. Check our website for more details as we get closer to the call."
Vega currently markets a green-energy product called Bio-Coal. Bio-Coal has a high energy density of up to 13,000 BTUs/Lb and is considered a renewable energy fuel that meets the Renewable Portfolio Standards and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) in the United States. Bio-Coal can be burned in existing coal-fired power plants around the world as an alternative to traditional coal.
Certain statements in this release constitute forward-looking statements or statements which may be deemed or construed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "forecast," "plan," "project," "intend," "expect," "should," "would," and similar expressions and all statements, which are not historical facts, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause the Company's actual results, performance (finance or operating) or achievements to differ from future results, performance (financing and operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Contact:
