Endurance Expands Google Apps for Work Offering to India and Mexico
Endurance and Google Extend Relationship to Help Small Businesses in Emerging Markets Succeed Online
Endurance International Group October 20, 2015 10:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
BURLINGTON, Mass., Oct. 20, 2015 /PRNewswire/ --  Endurance International Group (NASDAQ: EIGI ), a leading provider of cloud-based platform solutions to help small and medium-sized businesses succeed online, today announced it has launched Google Apps for Work on international brands Bluehost Mexico and HostGator Mexico . Endurance also successfully launched Google Apps for Work on BigRock in India earlier this year. These new offerings extend the existing relationship between Endurance and Google ( GOOG ), and reflect the companies' dedication to providing the best web tools and technology to small businesses around the world.
View photo
.
Small business subscribers in India and Mexico are now offered a complete solution to grow their business online through Google's Google Apps and Endurance's web presence solutions. Google Apps offers powerful professional tools, including Gmail connected to their domain, cloud-based storage with Drive, Calendar for meeting scheduling, and Hangouts for video conferencing. Subscribers can access these tools through the customer control panel, which allows them to manage their entire web presence through a single location.
"We are very excited to launch Google Apps in India and Mexico and to expand our suite of services for small businesses. This initiative establishes Bluehost and HostGator as true trendsetters in emerging markets," said Mitch Haber, SVP Global Partnerships of Endurance . "We are also thrilled to extend our partnership with Google – by packaging our offerings together, we are able to provide small businesses across the globe with the tools that will help them succeed online."
To learn more about Endurance's Google Apps for Work offerings please visit:
HostGator Mexico
About Endurance International Group
Endurance International Group is a publicly traded (NASDAQ: EIGI ) technology company that helps power small and medium-sized businesses online. Through its proprietary cloud platform, Endurance provides web presence solutions including web hosting, eCommerce, eMarketing and mobile business tools to approximately 4.4 million subscribers around the globe. The company's world-class family of brands includes Bluehost, HostGator, iPage, Domain.com, A Small Orange, MOJO Marketplace, BigRock and ResellerClub, among others. Headquartered in Burlington, Massachusetts, Endurance employs more than 2,700 people across the United States in Utah, Texas, Washington and Arizona and in the United Kingdom, India, Israel and Brazil. For more information on how Endurance can help grow your business, visit endurance.com , follow us on Twitter @EnduranceIntl and like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/EnduranceInternational .
Google, Google Apps, Gmail, Google Talk, Google Calendar, Google Docs, Google Sites and Google Video are trademarks of Google Inc.
Endurance International Group and the compass logo are trademarks of The Endurance International Group, Inc. Other brand names of Endurance International Group are trademarks of The Endurance International Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries.
Press Contact:
