FIDO Alliance Announces 72 Certified Authentication Products Are Now Available, Featuring the First FIDO Solutions for Apple's Touch ID on iOS 9
FIDO 1.0 Ecosystem Gains Ground With New Products From 9 Companies Including Sony, Samsung, and LG Electronics
The FIDO Alliance November 3, 2015 10:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Nov 3, 2015) -  The FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance ( https://www.fidoalliance.org/ ), an industry consortium launched in 2013 to revolutionize online security with open standards for simpler, stronger authentication, today announced results from the most recent round of FIDO 1.0 certifications . Among the 72 products now available to the marketplace are the first FIDO Certified™ iOS products from Egis, Nok Nok Labs, and Samsung SDS, along with a line-up of smartphones from the world's leading OEMs . With a rich array of client and server options for Android, iOS, web and applications, consumers, Relying Parties and Service Providers have many choices to adopt FIDO authentication now.
FIDO members, and others, leverage open FIDO standards for Android, Apple, iOS and Touch ID to use FIDO authentication in devices, services and applications instead of passwords. The top 10 smartphone OEMs are represented in the FIDO Alliance or among FIDO Certified products in an emerging, powerful ecosystem that makes it easy to move away from username and password authentication to universal, interoperable FIDO authentication. Newly certified FIDO 1.0 products include FIDO applications, authenticators and servers from DDS, Goodix, Feitian, Hypersecu, LG Electronics, Neowave, Nok Nok Labs, Samsung, Samsung SDS, and Sony.
"The FIDO ecosystem is emerging with an abundance of options that enable easy adoption of strong authentication for Internet providers and services, enterprise and consumers," said Dustin Ingalls, president of the FIDO Alliance. "In less than three years, the FIDO Alliance has delivered standards and a range of products that make it possible now to see a world that doesn't rely on passwords, but rather is prepared with more secure, private, and convenient FIDO authentication."
"We are excited to pass the first FIDO Certification Process for iOS 9," said Steve Ro, Chairman and CEO of Egis. "iOS plays a major part in mobile payment trends. With Egis Touch ID enabled UAF client, mobile payment service providers can extend its online payment services on iOS to a high level of usage and security. We will be able to provide more security, easy solutions, and products for authentication based on FIDO specifications. These specifications are changing the nature of authentication with standards for simpler, stronger authentication that reduce reliance on passwords."
"Nok Nok Labs is proud to have achieved FIDO certification for the Nok Nok App SDK for iOS, which is a key part of the Nok Nok S3 Authentication Suite," said Ramesh Kesanupalli, founder of Nok Nok Labs and FIDO visionary. "The Nok Nok App SDK for iOS leverages the Secure Enclave and TouchID for both on-device and out of band authentication, allowing deploying organizations to deliver strong authentication across multiple platforms including iOS. As operating systems such as Apple's iOS evolve and improve, the FIDO specifications underpinning the Nok Nok S3 Suite deliver a cross-platform framework allowing organizations to leverage those advances for any authenticator, any device and any application."
"The FIDO solution from Samsung SDS offers compelling and trusted opportunities with FIDO Certified products for both Android and iOS. On top of the interoperability of FIDO, SDS adds high security to its product through CC (Common Criteria) certification, presenting a wide scope of FIDO solution," Dongho Kim, product manager, Samsung SDS. 
"The new Keydo Flash Drives by NEOWAVE just passed FIDO U2F certification. This new product line combines FIDO U2F USB Security Key and USB 3.0 mass storage (from 8GB to 64GB) with 256-bit AES data encryption. With the free portable Chromium browser option on the flash partition, it is the world's first all-in-one portable and 'zero footprint' secure cloud browsing solution compatible with FIDO U2F," said Bruno BERNARD, CEO of NEOWAVE.
Certification testing is based on industry-standard best practices to objectively evaluate technical implementations of the FIDO 1.0 specifications, which are Universal Authentication Framework (UAF) and Universal 2nd Factor (U2F). Demand for FIDO certification is high, as indicated by the many products certified just since FIDO certification testing launched in May. Both FIDO Alliance member and non-member organizations participated in this third round of FIDO certification tests conducted in September.
The growing ecosystem of FIDO products and services enables companies, organizations and individuals to move beyond using passwords for security by adding FIDO U2F second-factor devices and/or eliminating passwords entirely through FIDO UAF biometric solutions such as fingerprint or iris recognition sensors. If biometric data is used by a FIDO authenticator, the biometric information never leaves the device. FIDO authentication to the cloud is always performed by means of industry standard public key cryptography.
The next FIDO Certified interoperability testing events are scheduled for FIDO U2F on December 8th, and for FIDO UAF on December 9th and 10th. Subsequent testing sessions will occur approximately every 90 days or as demand dictates. Detailed information about the program and testing registration may be found at the FIDO Alliance site.
About The FIDO Alliance
The FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance, www.fidoalliance.org , was formed in July 2012 to address the lack of interoperability among strong authentication technologies, and remedy the problems users face with creating and remembering multiple usernames and passwords. The FIDO Alliance is changing the nature of authentication with standards for simpler, stronger authentication that define an open, scalable, interoperable set of mechanisms that reduce reliance on passwords. FIDO authentication is stronger, private, and easier to use when authenticating to online services.
The FIDO Alliance Board of Directors includes leading global organizations: Alibaba Holdings (
NYSE
