Compare Brokers
FIDO Alliance Announces 62 Authentication Products Are Now FIDO(R) Certified
New FIDO Certified Products From Egis, Feitian, GoTrust, MicroStrategy, Sensory, SK Planet, and Synaptics Add Fuel to the FIDO-Enabled Ecosystem
The FIDO Alliance August 12, 2015 11:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2015) -  The FIDO® (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance ( https://www.fidoalliance.org/ ), an industry consortium launched in 2013 to revolutionize online security with open standards for simpler, stronger authentication, today announced there are 62 FIDO Certified ™ products after the most recent round of FIDO Alliance testing of products for compliance to the FIDO 1.0 specifications . 
Newly certified FIDO 1.0 products include FIDO authenticators and servers from Egis, Feitian, GoTrust, MicroStrategy™, Sensory, SK Planet, and Synaptics. FIDO Certification testing is available to anyone building implementations of the FIDO 1.0 specifications -- FIDO Alliance members and non-members alike. Certification testing is based on industry-standard best practices to objectively evaluate technical implementations of the FIDO 1.0 specifications, which are Universal Authentication Framework (UAF) and Universal 2nd Factor (U2F). Both FIDO Alliance member and non-member organizations participated in this second round of FIDO certification testings conducted in July.
"We are very pleased to see the diverse range of new FIDO Certified products from the most recent round of compliance testing. FIDO 1.0 specifications are designed to be flexible and future-proof, accommodating a variety of modalities and transport bindings," said Brett McDowell, FIDO Alliance executive director. "The innovative products coming through our FIDO certification program come in a variety of forms to accommodate the many diverse organizations ready to deploy simpler, stronger FIDO authentication."
"We're proud to contribute to the FIDO Alliance mission of driving towards password-free convenience and high security," said Ritu Favre, senior vice president, general manager, Biometrics Product Division, Synaptics. "FIDO Certification accelerates adoption of Synaptics' Match-in-Sensor architecture by ensuring interoperability among the growing ecosystem of FIDO compliant products and online services."
New implementations accompany the many new FIDO products that are available now. Among these, SK Planet will deploy newly certified FIDO products in Syrup Pay , a one-click payment service that accommodates PC and smartphone users throughout Korea.
The growing ecosystem of FIDO products and services enables companies, organizations and individuals to move beyond using passwords for security by adding FIDO U2F second-factor devices and/or eliminating passwords entirely through FIDO UAF biometric solutions such as fingerprint or iris recognition sensors. If biometric data is used by a FIDO authenticator, the biometric information never leaves the device. FIDO authentication to the cloud is always performed by means of industry standard public key cryptography.
The next FIDO Certified interoperability testing events are scheduled for FIDO UAF on September 22 and for FIDO U2F on October 5. Subsequent testing sessions will occur approximately every 90 days or as demand dictates. Interested parties should contact the FIDO Alliance at https://fidoalliance.org/certification/ for more information and to register products for FIDO Certified testing.
About The FIDO Alliance
The FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance, www.fidoalliance.org , was formed in July 2012 to address the lack of interoperability among strong authentication technologies, and remedy the problems users face with creating and remembering multiple usernames and passwords. The FIDO Alliance is changing the nature of authentication with standards for simpler, stronger authentication that define an open, scalable, interoperable set of mechanisms that reduce reliance on passwords. FIDO authentication is stronger, private, and easier to use when authenticating to online services.
The FIDO Alliance Board of Directors includes leading global organizations: Alibaba Holdings (
NYSE
