More Than 100 FIDO Certified Products Fuel Global Adoption of FIDO Strong Authentication
Cross-Sector Deployments Protect Hundreds of Millions of End Users Around the World
The FIDO Alliance January 19, 2016 11:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Jan 19, 2016) -  The FIDO® (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance ( https://www.fidoalliance.org/ ), creators of the only cross-industry strong authentication technology standard, today announced that more than 100 solutions are now FIDO® Certified. Hundreds of millions of end-users' desktop and mobile apps have FIDO-enabled authentication protection available from leading service providers, including Google , PayPal , Samsung , Bank of America , NTT DOCOMO , Dropbox , and GitHub . Another milestone achieved with today's announcement is that FIDO authentication is now enabled on devices from the top five global handset manufacturers .
Organizations with new FIDO Certified products announced today include: DDS , Egis , ETRI , EyeVerify , Feitian Technologies , Gemalto , Huawei , Infineon , Inside Secure , Ledger , Lenovo , LG Electronics , Longmai , Morpho , NXP , Raonsecure , Samsung SDS , Secuve , Watchdata Technologies , SurePass ID , and Yubico .
"This explosion of FIDO Certified products and adoption numbers confirm industry-wide endorsement of FIDO as the new strong authentication technology standard," said Brett McDowell, executive director of the FIDO Alliance. "This increasing availability of FIDO Certified solutions creates an unprecedented opportunity for organizations to implement simple, usable and strong authentication and better protect customers, employees and data from the risks of data breaches, hacking and identity theft."
The growing collection of  FIDO products and services enables individuals and organizations across enterprise, government, healthcare and financial services to eliminate weak username and password-based authentication and move to strong authentication for data security.
For device technology providers, using the FIDO specifications dramatically simplifies development and maintenance of biometrics and other second-factor capabilities. The FIDO Alliance provides one unified specification and a robust certification process to ensure compliance and interoperability. For application or IT infrastructure developers, these same benefits apply, and FIDO Certified products offer a vast range of pre-certified solutions and services used to add biometrics or other strong authentication security to online applications and systems.
The Alliance is working on expanding the adoption of FIDO authentication to all platforms and devices. The Alliance recently submitted to the World Wide Web Consortium  (W3C), the international standards organization for the World Wide Web, a set of three technical specifications that form the foundation for this expansion.
For more information on the FIDO Alliance, visit www.fidoalliance.org .
About FIDO® Certified
Certification testing is based on industry-standard best practices to objectively evaluate technical implementations of the FIDO 1.0 specifications, FIDO UAF and FIDO U2F. FIDO certification is open to all who want to offer FIDO authentication in products and services compliant with FIDO specifications.
The next FIDO Certified interoperability testing events will take place on March 8, 2016 for FIDO U2F and March 9-10, 2016 for FIDO UAF. Subsequent testing sessions will occur approximately every 90 days or as demand dictates. Detailed information about the program and testing registration may be found at the FIDO Alliance website.
About The FIDO Alliance
The FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance, www.fidoalliance.org , was formed in July 2012 to address the lack of interoperability among strong authentication technologies, and remedy the problems users face with creating and remembering multiple usernames and passwords. The FIDO Alliance is changing the nature of authentication with standards for simpler, stronger authentication that define an open, scalable, interoperable set of mechanisms that reduce reliance on passwords. FIDO authentication is stronger, private, and easier to use when authenticating to online services.
The FIDO Alliance Board of Directors includes leading global organizations: Alibaba Holdings (
NYSE
The Industry Comments on FIDO Authentication, Certification and Products
DDS - Kenji Miyoshino, CEO
"DDS is proud to announce FIDO Certification for its Magatama product, a wearable, high-security fingerprint sensor that connects to iOS and Android devices over Bluetooth. As a FIDO Certified authenticator, Magatama makes it possible to add the convenience and security of fingerprint-based FIDO authentication to a wide range of compatible mobile devices."
ETRI - Soohyung Kim, project leader
"ETRI is proud to have achieved FIDO certification for the ETRI FIDO Client Suite for iOS and Smart Watch and Card for Android, which is a key component to apply FIDO Technology for FinTech applications. The wide range of FIDO products from ETRI has already enabled many Korean companies to use FIDO technology in financial applications. These additional authenticators for both Android and iOS will help companies build more secure and convenient FIDO based services in multi-platform operating environments."
EyeVerify - Toby Rush, founder and CEO
"EyeVerify fully supports the mission of the FIDO Alliance to enable simple, convenient and private authentication alternatives. We are pleased to have achieved FIDO certification for Eyeprint ID, becoming part of the interoperable authentication ecosystem that will enable businesses and their consumers to get rid of the dreaded password -- in our case, with a simple selfie."
Feitian Technologies - Tibi Zhang, International Business Director
"As the leading provider of strong authentication solutions and a sponsor member of the FIDO Alliance, Feitian is committed to collaborating to deliver open specifications for universal strong authentication to meet the distinct needs of users and organizations. We are very delighted at the opportunities and benefits that FIDO certification brings to our customers, empowering them to easily integrate standardized strong authentication products and effectively enhance security and performance, which in turn reduces risk of identity fraud and improves convenience and the user experience.
"Feitian customers can now use Feitian's FIDO U2F-enabled product portfolios to succeed in gaining a full range of authentication technologies, all of which are providing end-to-end FIDO Certified support and ensuring that customers are ready for deployment into the FIDO ecosystem."
Gemalto - Stefane Mouille, Mobile Apps strategy director
"Testing the interoperability of the end-to-end FIDO solution, from Secure element to the remote server, is a key asset both to providing the necessary convenience of usage and ensuring confidence in the FIDO technology. Gemalto Secure UAF authenticator on Secure Element certification brings this confidence to Mobile Networks and Handset manufacturers."
INSIDE Secure - Eric Le Cocquen, Senior Product Manager Secure Microcontrollers "INSIDE Secure recognizes the importance of a certification program to guarantee the interoperability of products within an ecosystem such as FIDO and is therefore very proud that its Vault-U2F-USB is now FIDO U2F Certified. This Reference Design is based on our MS6003 USB Secure Microcontroller that greatly simplifies the design and manufacturing of Secure USB Tokens and optimizes the bill of materials thanks to its built-in clock generation, IEC 61000-4-2 ESD Protection and 300nA Real Time Clock. The FIDO U2F Certification of Vault-U2F-USB now makes INSIDE's MS6003 the ideal single chip solution for OEMs looking to build FIDO U2F USB Authenticators and seeking a fast, easy and affordable FIDO Derivative Certification."
Ledger - Eric Larcheveque, CEO
"Only FIDO certification brings recognition of open standards for strong authentication. The pre-sale process is already clarified, and we can concentrate on providing the best hardware and firmware possible."
Longmai - Allen Liang, VP
"As one of the leading global security solution providers, Longmai has always been devoted to the exploration as well as the development of innovative and professional security solutions.
"The global proliferation of intelligent terminals has created urgent market demand for FIDO solutions. Longmai developed mFIDO U2F to address the pressing need. We believe that FIDO authentication will prevail as the standard for online authentication in both communication and financial industries. Longmai joins the global FIDO network of security solutions providers to assure the success of FIDO authentication."
Morpho - Anne Bouverot, Chair and CEO
"The days of relying exclusively on password-based security are coming to an end. Through face recognition, a simple selfie enables users to both prove and link their unique identities to their smartphones and tablets. In the fight against identity fraud for mobile transactions, Morpho is developing with FIDO viable solutions which are easier to use and protect consumers."
NXP Semiconductors – Sami Nassar, vice president of cyber security solutions
"NXP brings secure connections for a smarter world. We believe that when security and privacy features are built into the design, the end product will deliver more convenience to users and reliability to services. Today, NXP brings to market the FIDO U2F authentication with NFC enabled secure element to provide bank-grade security with a convenient tap-to-authenticate and connect to cloud services."
Raonsecure - Steve Lee, CEO
"We have acquired the right to claim 'FIDO Certified' for our next generation of authentication solutions, which positions Raonsecure at the forefront of meeting global demand for convenient authentication and secure payments. Raonsecure's TouchEN Onepass accommodates a new generation in authentication for consumer markets, financial applications, and the Internet of Things.
"FIDO international standards equip TouchEN Onepass, an app-independent SDK model and app type, to offer a new flexibility and affordability that both accommodates changes to existing authentication systems and enables easy expansion into new authentication environments, like IoT."
Samsung SDS - James Choi, Mobile Payment Business, Vice President
"The Samsung SDS FIDO solution is now available with a complete package of FIDO client and authenticator for both Android and iOS through the fourth certification test. We enable our customers to accelerate market penetration by providing an integrated service authentication platform that offers consistent authentication in a wider choice of devices."
SurePass ID - Mark Poidomani, CEO
"SurePass has always been a leader in offering the most cost effective and user friendly authentication solutions; adding FIDO U2F NFC support is a key addition in our technology portfolio. The certification of FIDO U2F NFC coupled with our FIDO server enables us to offer a complete FIDO enabled "tap and go" authentication solution for mobile users. Any organization can use SurePass TapID to equip their website or mobile app with FIDO authentication in just a matter of hours."
Watchdata Technologies - Thomas Wang Xuelin, Vice General Manager
"As a recognized market leader in digital authentication and transaction security, Watchdata Technologies pioneered the development of smart card operating systems, the application of PKI technologies in identification authentication and e-banking security devices. We aim to provide authentication solutions that are more secure and easier-to-use for our customers. We are proud to have achieved the FIDO Certification for our WatchKey FIDO v1.0 product, which is based on the U2F protocol. We foresee that FIDO standards will be designed into a wide range of devices and systems, and we anticipate more developments this year!"
Yubico - Stina Ehrensvard, CEO
"Yubico certifies its FIDO U2F-compliant YubiKeys to validate the quality of our implementation and ensure an interoperability among all products and services that support the FIDO U2F technical specifications. The YubiKey NEO is one of the first products to certify for FIDO U2F over NFC, enabling simple, strong and standardized authentication for mobile devices.
"Testing the interoperability of the end to end FIDO solution, from Secure element to the remote server, is a key asset to provide the necessary convenience of usage and confidence in the FIDO technology."
FIDO Alliance
