The FIDO Alliance Appoints Egis to the Board of Directors
Directors Egis and Nok Nok Labs Represent the FIDO Alliance at MWC Shanghai
The FIDO Alliance July 14, 2015 7:00 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 14, 2015) - MWC Shanghai -- Egis Technology Inc., a leading fingerprint sensor technology provider, has advanced from sponsor to board member of the FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance ( https://www.fidoalliance.org/ ), an industry consortium whose mission is to revolutionize online authentication with the first standards-based specifications . A FIDO Alliance member since 2013, Egis has been active at every membership level in the development of FIDO standards.
"Egis has been a true contributor to the success of FIDO Alliance, and I enthusiastically welcome Egis to our board of directors," said Brett McDowell, executive director of the FIDO Alliance. "Egis was among the first organizations based in Asia to appreciate the strategic potential of our open standards initiative and joined us in 2013 to help develop the global ecosystem for FIDO authentication. At every level of membership, Egis has used their presence as a global biometrics provider, and contributed an understanding of the region to raise awareness of FIDO authentication and promote its value throughout Asia."
The password problem is a universal problem that demands a global ecosystem to effect a revolutionary solution. Open and scalable FIDO standards provide an alternative to passwords that is secure, private and easy-to-use. FIDO standards address a range of platforms from the cloud to the emerging Internet of Things (IoT) market.
"Providing our customers with a simple, convenient, and secure digital life experience is a top priority for us during this BYOD generation due to secure and reliable authentication issues across multiple devices and access points," said Steve Ro, Chairman and CEO of Egis. "With our influence and background, we are proud to become a board member of the FIDO Alliance and continue to develop simpler and more secure authentication solutions that over time can eliminate the reliance on passwords."
FIDO members commit to share technology and collaborate with one another to develop open and interoperable specifications for universal strong authentication. Egis was among the first organizations in the world to participate in the FIDO certification program and today offers both FIDO Certified™ UAF and U2F products to the marketplace, including YuKey UAF Authenticator APK, YuKey UAF Client + UAF ASM/Authenticator APK, and YuKey U2F Authenticator.
Board directors Egis and Nok Nok Labs are representing the FIDO Alliance at Mobile World Congress Shanghai. Egis will be showcasing their FIDO UAF and U2F Certified™ products in Hall 5, Booth W5.E120. Rajiv Dholakia, VP of Products at Nok Nok Labs, will present on Mobile Identity Solutions on Wednesday 15th July at 14:45.
About Egis Technology Inc.
As a leading provider of fingerprint biometrics, Egis Technology Inc. specializes in providing a total turnkey solution with superior sensor performance and software functionality. Their proprietary matching algorithm offers one of the best FAR/FRR performances in the current market while providing maximum security and convenience. Egis' leading edge fingerprint technology is the ideal choice for implementation in mobile devices. As a board member of the FIDO Alliance, Egis aims to provide security and authentication for all in the online world. Egis is headquartered in Taipei, Taiwan with branch offices located in China, Japan, and USA. For more information, please visit www.egistec.com .
About The FIDO Alliance
The FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance, www.fidoalliance.org , was formed in July 2012 to address the lack of interoperability among strong authentication technologies, and remedy the problems users face with creating and remembering multiple usernames and passwords. The FIDO Alliance is changing the nature of authentication with standards for simpler, stronger authentication that define an open, scalable, interoperable set of mechanisms that reduce reliance on passwords. FIDO authentication is stronger, private, and easier to use when authenticating to online services with FIDO Certified™ products and services.
The FIDO Alliance Board of Directors includes leading global organizations: Alibaba Holdings (
NYSE
