Done
BOCA RATON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The  ADT  Corporation       ( ADT ), a leading provider of security and automation solutions for       homes and businesses, today announced it will be a sponsor for the U.S.       Chamber of Commerce’s 11th annual America’s       Small Business Summit , which will bring together hundreds of small       business owners, managers, and local chamber leaders from across the       country. As a summit event partner, ADT will help provide attendees with       opportunities to learn, network, and participate in a variety of       thought-provoking sessions on leadership, innovation, and small business       policy.
“Small business owners are the heroes of the American business       community, and ADT is proud to support their continued growth,” said       Luis Orbegoso, President, ADT Business. “Partnering with the U.S.       Chamber of Commerce on this initiative is an ideal vehicle for ADT as       their constituency are the types of small businesses that count on us       every day to help safeguard their company.”
This year’s America’s Small Business Summit, taking place June 8 – 10 in       Washington, D.C., will once again provide access to the experiences and       perspectives of successful entrepreneurs, corporate leaders, keynote       speakers, and other small business owners to enable participants to       manage and grow their businesses and to navigate and participate in the       policy discussions affecting their own business communities.
ADT will also sponsor the corporate headshots for small businesses at       the summit. In this capacity, ADT will be empowering the small business       owners in attendance to have professional materials created for their       business cards, website materials and outbound marketing activities.       Additionally, ADT Chief Information Security Officer Tom Dennison will       be presenting on a panel called “Don’t Get Hacked! Cybersecurity on a       Shoestring Budget,” a panel that will provide insights for small       business customers in terms of how to protect against potential       cybersecurity threats.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation       representing the interests of more than three million businesses of all       sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and       industry associations.
About ADT
The ADT Corporation ( ADT ) is a leading provider of security and       automation solutions for homes and businesses in the United States and       Canada. ADT's broad and pioneering set of products and services,       including ADT Pulse® interactive home and business solutions, and health       services, meet a range of customer needs for today’s active and       increasingly mobile lifestyles. Headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida,       ADT helps provide peace of mind to nearly seven million customers, and       it employs approximately 17,500 people at 200 locations. More       information is available at www.adt.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150608005793/en/
U.S.        Chamber of Commerce
