CIT Serves as Lead Arranger in up to $120 Million Financing for Sunlight Financial LLC
Financing Provided by CIT Bank, N.A. Will Enable Sunlight Financial to Grow Residential Solar Loan Program
Program Designed to Originate and Manage Financing for Consumers Seeking Residential Solar-Powered Systems
CIT Group Inc. September 24, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ), a leading provider of commercial lending and       leasing services, today announced that CIT       Energy Finance served as lead arranger in a senior secured credit       facility of up to $120 million for Sunlight       Financial LLC , a provider of financing for the residential solar       market. Sunlight Financial is backed by private equity firms Tiger       Infrastructure Partners and Hudson       Clean Energy Partners . The facility will be used to partially fund       loans to consumers purchasing residential solar panel systems. Financing       was provided by CIT       Bank, N.A. , the principal bank subsidiary of CIT. Terms of the       transaction were not disclosed.
“We are pleased to partner with CIT on this financing, as it will allow       us to offer longer term solar loans to homeowners across the United       States,” said Matt Potere, CEO of Sunlight Financial. “Sunlight       Financial is well positioned to capitalize on the thriving residential       solar market, which is projected to continue its growth and maturation       over the coming years.”
Mike       Lorusso , Group Head of CIT Energy Finance, said, “This is an       exciting transaction that further demonstrates our commitment to       supporting the renewable energy sector. Our deep industry expertise       enabled us to design a creative financing solution for Sunlight       Financial. We look forward to building on this relationship and       continuing our leadership in the solar sector.”
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About Sunlight Financial LLC
Sunlight Financial provides long-term loans to finance the installation       of residential rooftop solar systems. Sunlight offers its financing       products to market-leading installers and large equipment distribution       companies (channel partners). These channel partners originate       installations with homeowners, who typically choose to install a rooftop       solar system to save on their utility bill. The company’s strategy is to       grow with several installers by providing cost-effective capital and       robust service offerings, enabling it to scale quickly while minimizing       customer acquisition costs and overhead. The company was founded by       Hudson Clean Energy Partners and is backed by Tiger Infrastructure       Partners. For more information, please visit www.sunlightfinancial.com .
About Tiger Infrastructure Partners
Tiger Infrastructure Partners is an independent private equity firm       focused on investments in middle-market infrastructure assets and       businesses in North America and Europe. Tiger Infrastructure targets       investments in the power, renewable energy, natural resources       infrastructure, waste management, water, transportation, communications,       and related sectors. Tiger Management LLC and members of the Ziff family       are significant investors in Tiger Infrastructure. tigerinfrastructure.com
About Hudson Clean Energy Partners
Hudson Clean Energy Partners is a private equity firm making privately       negotiated investments in the dynamic and expected high-growth clean       energy industry. Global in scope, Hudson is dedicated to investing       exclusively in renewable power, alternative fuels and energy smart       technologies in sectors that include wind and solar energy, biofuels,       biomass, geothermal energy, energy efficiency and storage. Hudson       typically invests in high-growth, asset-based, capital-intensive       segments of the clean energy value chain with minimal technology       development risk, primarily in control and shared-control positions. hudsoncep.com
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150924005097/en/
CIT        Group Inc
