CIT Appoints Louis Barone Managing Director, Northeast Regional Sales Manager of CIT Commercial Services
CIT Group Inc. September 25, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Louis Barone, Managing Director, Northeast Regional Sales Manager of CIT Commercial Services (Photo: …
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ) cit.com ,       a leading provider of commercial lending and leasing services, today       announced the appointment of Louis Barone as Managing Director,       Northeast Regional Sales Manager of CIT       Commercial Services , a leading provider of factoring services in the       United States. He will report directly to Marc       Heller , Executive Vice President, Northeast Regional Manager and       International Manager of CIT Commercial Services.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150925005127/en/
“Lou’s strong sales skills, credit expertise, deal structuring ability       and demonstrated leadership capabilities will add great value to our       organization,” said Jon       Lucas , President, CIT Commercial Services. “He will build upon his       deep industry experience and CIT’s standing as a leading provider of       factoring solutions to spearhead our efforts to grow new factoring and       lending business in the northeastern United States.”
Barone has many years of experience working to meet the financial needs       of the consumer products sector. He joins CIT from Israel Discount Bank       (IDB), where he was Senior Vice President, Head of IDB Factors since       2010. Prior to joining IDB, Barone held various management positions at       several financial institutions, including GMAC Commercial Finance and       HSBC Business Credit. He also previously served as Vice President,       Business Development at CIT.
About CIT Commercial Services
CIT Commercial Services is one of the nation’s leading providers of       factoring and financing to consumer product companies. We tailor       business credit solutions that help companies increase sales, improve       cash flow, reduce operating expenses and eliminate customer credit       losses. Our clients are vendors that sell to a broad range of public and       private retailers, wholesalers and distributors across the nation and       abroad.
cit.com/commercialservices
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A. (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender), has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150925005127/en/
