CIT Serves as Sole Lead Arranger in Refinancing of Bertucci’s Corporation
Bertucci’s Is a Portfolio Company of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners
CIT Group Inc. October 19, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
NEW YORK & NORTHBOROUGH, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ) cit.com ,       a leading provider of commercial lending and leasing services, today       announced that CIT       Retail & Restaurant Finance served as Sole Lead Arranger in a       senior secured credit facility to Bertucci’s Corporation (Bertucci’s),       an owner and operator of Italian casual dining restaurants with       locations from New England to Virginia. Bertucci’s is a portfolio       company of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners, a Los Angeles,       California-based investment firm. Financing was provided by CIT       Bank, N.A. , the principal bank subsidiary of CIT. Terms of the       transaction were not disclosed.
“This financing will help provide for ongoing capital needs of the       company and facilitate Bertucci’s plans to extend its Bertucci’s Kitchen       reimage program,” said Lauren Leichtman, CEO of Levine Leichtman. “We’re       pleased to once again call on CIT for its financing expertise and its       deep knowledge of the restaurant sector.”
Bill Freeman, Chief Executive Officer of Bertucci’s, said, “We’re       excited about our Bertucci’s Kitchen reimage program. It emphasizes our       iconic brick-oven experience and centers on promoting the open kitchen       with theater-style cooking. We believe that watching your food being       prepared is an integral part of the dining experience. Additionally, our       bar areas are being refreshed or expanded to further enhance the guest’s       experience. With the support of an experienced restaurant investor like       Levine Leichtman and the financing acumen of CIT, we had the confidence       this transaction would close quickly and smoothly.”
Chris Esposito, Managing Director, CIT Retail & Restaurant Finance,       said, “We’re pleased to provide this financing to Bertucci’s to help       further their growth plans. This transaction highlights our deep       experience in the restaurant sector and our ability to develop creative       financing solutions for our middle market customers. We look forward to       further building our relationship with Levine Leichtman.”
Eric       Toizer , Managing Director, CIT Sponsor Finance, added,       “Bertucci’s has more than 30 years of market experience that has led to       a loyal and dedicated customer base. They are known for their signature       brick-oven offerings and have demonstrated the ability to increase       market share. We’re glad to play a significant role in this transaction       and further support the company’s growth strategies.”
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About Bertucci’s
Since 1981, Bertucci’s Italian Restaurant has served customers with       hospitality and warmth. Today, Bertucci’s operates 88 locations in 10       states and the District of Columbia. At Bertucci's, you can always       expect a little more. It starts with handcrafted food, genuine       hospitality and our unique, 650-degree brick oven. Everything we make,       from our famous rolls to pasta, pizza, salads, wings and desserts, is       made to order using only the freshest ingredients. Because at       Bertucci's, our secret ingredient is refusing to use “secret       ingredients.” Bertuccis.com .
About Levine Leichtman Capital Partners
Levine Leichtman Capital Partners (LLCP) is a Los Angeles,       California-based private investment firm that has managed approximately       $7 billion of institutional capital since its inception. LLCP invests in       middle market companies located in the United States and Europe. LLCP       invests its capital through private equity partnerships and various debt       and leveraged loan funds. LLCP is currently making new investments       through Levine Leichtman Capital Partners V, L.P.; Levine Leichtman       Capital Partners SBIC Fund, L.P.; Levine Leichtman Capital Partners       Private Capital Solutions, L.P.; Levine Leichtman Capital Partners       Europe, L.P. and LLCP Co-Investment Fund, L.P. LLCP has offices in Los       Angeles, New York, Dallas, Chicago, London and The Hague. llcp.com
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with       more than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT       Bank, N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30       billion of deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides       financing, leasing and advisory services principally to middle market       companies across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and       equipment financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector.       It also offers products and services to consumers through its Internet       bank franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151019005130/en/
Contact:
