CIT Executive Spotlight Examines Global Aviation Finance Trends
CIT Group Inc. September 28, 2015 8:30 AM
?
John Morabito, Group Head, Financial Institutions Group, CIT Commercial Air & CIT Maritime Finance (Photo: …
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The global airline industry currently has access to an abundance of       fragmented capital, but there may not be an equal abundance of market       awareness to adapt to potential changes in market conditions. This       fragmentation has served the industry well during a period of       significant growth and profits; however, due to the cyclical nature of       the global airline sector, this lack of market awareness is leaving       companies vulnerable to the next potential downturn. These are some of       the observations presented by John       Morabito , Group Head, Financial Institutions Group, CIT       Commercial Air & CIT       Maritime Finance , divisions of CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ), a global leader in transportation finance, in       “Global Commercial Aerospace: Financing Trends” ( www.cit.com/morabito ),       the latest piece of market intelligence in the CIT Executive Insights       video series.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150928005416/en/
“As the industry reaches a peak, it’s crucial that global airlines and       financial institutions strategically and methodically plan their growth       and access to capital in order to protect their economics before the       sector enters a slowdown,” said Morabito. “In order to better serve our       clients in the face of this prospect, CIT established a joint venture       with Century Tokyo Leasing (CTL) that combines CIT’s platform and asset       management experience with CTL’s unique capital backing and deep       regional knowledge.”
Some of the other global aviation trends Morabito expands upon include:
Lack of focus on midlife equipment: Capital providers and some         carriers are missing opportunities with midlife equipment,         largely due to a lack of knowledge and expertise in financing this         type of asset.
Opportunities in examining relative value options: A partner         that understands new and midlife aircraft, technical considerations         and regional nuances can assist in the creation of a diverse portfolio         of assets and investments.
Partnerships combine experience and expertise: CIT and CTL’s         joint venture pairs financing solutions from CIT with CTL’s deep         regional knowledge and unique capital backing.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About CIT Aerospace
As one of the world’s leading aircraft leasing organizations, CIT       Aerospace provides leasing and financing packages, including operating       leases and structuring and advisory services, for commercial airlines       worldwide. CIT Aerospace owns, finances and manages a fleet of more than       350 commercial aircraft serving approximately 100 customers in 50       countries. cit.com/aerospace
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A. (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender), has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150928005416/en/
