Compare Brokers
CIT Announces Senior Management Succession Plan
CEO John Thain to Retire on March 31, 2016; Will Continue as Chairman of the Board of Directors
CIT Board Member Ellen R. Alemany to Become Vice Chairman Effective November 1, 2015 and Chief Executive Officer Effective April 1, 2016
Vice Chairman Steven Mnuchin to Step Down from Management Effective March 31, 2016; Will Remain a member of the Board of Directors
CIT Corporate Controller Carol Hayles to Become Chief Financial Officer Effective November 1, 2015
CIT Group Inc. 22 hours ago
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The Board of Directors of CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ), a leading provider of commercial lending and       leasing services, today announced that Chief Executive Officer John       A. Thain will retire effective March 31, 2016, and will continue to       serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors, and that CIT Board Member       Ellen R. Alemany will become a member of the management team as       Vice Chairman effective November 1, 2015, and upon Mr. Thain’s       retirement become Chief Executive Officer. The Board also announced that       Vice Chairman Steven Mnuchin will step down from Management effective       March 31, 2016, and will remain as a member of the Board of Directors.       The Company announced the appointment of CIT Corporate Controller Carol       Hayles as Chief Financial Officer effective November 1, 2015.
Vice Admiral John Ryan, CIT Lead Director, speaking on behalf of the       Board of Directors, said, “John has been a pivotal leader during one of       the most challenging times in CIT’s more than 100 year history. Under       his leadership he has overseen the successful corporate and financial       restructuring of CIT. Since taking the helm in 2010, he returned CIT to       profitability; rebuilt its management team; eliminated or refinanced       approximately $31 billion of high-cost debt; oversaw the termination of       the Company’s Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve; returned more       than $1.7 billion to shareholders; established a premier Internet Bank,       and completed the acquisition of Direct Capital and OneWest Bank. On       behalf of the Board, employees and shareholders we extend our gratitude       to John for his success and commitment to CIT.”
Mr. Ryan continued, “As part of our succession planning efforts, we are       pleased to announce the appointment of Ellen Alemany as Vice Chairman of       CIT as she transitions to her new role as CEO, a position she will       assume on April 1, 2016. As an experienced and well respected leader in       the commercial banking sector, she is well suited to assume these       responsibilities and lead CIT forward. On behalf of the Board we       congratulate Ellen on her new position and look forward to working with       her in the future.”
Mr. Thain commented, “It’s been a pleasure to lead an outstanding group       of employees over the past five years and oversee CIT’s successful       restructuring. Their hard work and commitment were critical to our       efforts to rebuild and grow CIT and has helped ensure that CIT continues       to play an important role in supporting small and middle market       businesses, two sectors that remain the backbone of the U.S. economy.”
BACKGROUND ON ELLEN R. ALEMANY
Ellen R. Alemany has been a CIT Director since January 2014 and is a       member of the Audit and Regulatory Compliance Committees. She is also a       member of the CIT Bank, N.A. Board of Directors.
She is the former Head of The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Americas, the       management structure that oversees RBS’ businesses in the Americas. She       also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for RBS Citizens       Financial Group, Inc. Prior to RBS, Alemany served as Chief Executive       Officer for Global Transaction Services of Citigroup. She held a number       of senior positions during her tenure at Citigroup including Executive       Vice President for the Commercial Business group, President and CEO of       CitiCapital. She also held a number of executive positions in       Citigroup’s Global Corporate Bank, including Customer Group Executive of       North American markets, Global Industry Head of Media and       Communications, U.S. industry Head of Consumer Products, and Executive       Vice President of Citibank and Customer Group Executive for the Global       Relationship Bank in Europe, based in London.
Alemany received her MBA in finance from Fordham University. She serves       on the Boards of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (FIS),       Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and the Center for Discovery.
BACKGROUND ON CAROL HAYLES
As CFO, Hayles will serve as the Company’s Principal Financial Officer       and oversee all financial operations including the Accounting, Planning,       Tax, Treasury and Investor Relations departments.
Previously she served as Executive Vice President and Corporate       Controller where she was the Company's Principal Accounting Officer       responsible for the Company's accounting functions, SEC and regulatory       reporting and the associated controls activities.
Prior to CIT, Hayles spent 24 years at Citigroup Inc. where she served       as Deputy Controller, leading the SEC and regulatory reporting       functions. Before this, she held various leadership positions in       Finance, including Senior Analyst in Investor Relations, Chief Financial       Officer of Citibank's e-Business, CFO of Citigroup's Global Relationship       Bank and CFO of Citibank Canada. During her tenure in Canada, she also       worked in internal audit, real estate lending and other finance       positions.
She began her career at Price Waterhouse in Toronto, Canada. She       received her BBA from York University.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with       more than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT       Bank, N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30       billion of deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides       financing, leasing and advisory services principally to middle market       companies across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and       equipment financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector.       It also offers products and services to consumers through its Internet       bank franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151021006654/en/
Chief Executive Officer
