CIT Serves as Sole Lead Arranger in Senior Debt Financing to Central States Tower
Financing Provided by CIT Bank N.A. Allows for Development and Construction of New Towers Throughout the U.S.
Represents CIT’s Third Transaction with Central States Tower
CIT Group Inc. October 7, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
NEW YORK & WHEATON, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ) cit.com ,       a leading provider of commercial lending and leasing services, today       announced that CIT       Communications & Technology Finance served as Sole Lead Arranger       and Administrative Agent in a senior secured credit facility to Central       States Tower (CST), a leading middle market operator and developer of       wireless communications towers and a portfolio company of Sweetwater       Capital, LLC. Financing was provided by CIT       Bank, N.A. , the principal bank subsidiary of CIT. Terms of the       transaction were not disclosed.
Since 2006, CST has successfully constructed over 500 new wireless       communications tower sites throughout the United States. Through this       current financing with CIT and Sweetwater, CST has secured up to $75       million in new debt and equity financing.
“With this new financing in place, we will be able to seamlessly       continue to develop and construct new tower sites,” said Brian Meier,       Chief Executive Officer of Central States Tower. “We are extremely       excited to work with CIT and Sweetwater again, both of whom have been       valued and trusted partners.”
William Marraccini, Partner of Sweetwater Capital, said, “Along with       CST’s management team, we intend to continue to execute our successful       business model to build the highest quality tower portfolio in the U.S.       CIT’s deep industry expertise and experience, coupled with our       long-standing relationship, are the reasons we continue to look to CIT       as our debt financing partner.”
“We have maintained a strong relationship with CST and Sweetwater       Capital over the past eight years,” said Tom       Westdyk , Group Head and Managing Director, CIT       Communications & Technology Finance. “CST has a highly experienced       management team with a proven track record that operates in an industry       sector with very strong and stable fundamentals.”
Roger Fong, Director, CIT Communications & Technology Finance, said,       “Based upon the strength of their development expertise and operational       experience, we believe that CST is well positioned to capitalize on       continuing positive trends within the wireless infrastructure sector.       We’re pleased to provide this financing in continued support of CST’s       growth efforts.”
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About Central States Tower
Founded in 2006, Central States Tower, LLC is a leading independent       developer, owner and operator of wireless communications towers. CST’s       management team has over 60 years of aggregate experience in the       wireless infrastructure industry. centralstatestower.com
About Sweetwater Capital
Founded in 2002, Sweetwater Capital Holdings, LLC is a private equity       investment firm that invests in service businesses with recurring       revenue streams protected by inherent barriers to entry that provide       critical infrastructure to the Internet and to wireless communications       networks. sweetwatercg.com
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30 industries primarily in North America, and equipment       financing and leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also       offers products and services to consumers through its Internet bank       franchise and a network of retail branches in Southern California,       operating as OneWest Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151007005224/en/
Contact:
