CIT to Announce Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results on Tuesday, November 3rd
Conference Call and Audio Webcast Scheduled for 8:00 AM EST
CIT Group Inc. October 16, 2015 4:36 PM
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
CIT       Group Inc. ( CIT ) cit.com ,       a leading provider of commercial lending and leasing services, today       announced it will issue its financial results for the quarter ended       September 30, 2015, before the market opens on Tuesday, November 3, 2015       and will hold a conference call and audio webcast to discuss the results       at 8:00 AM EST.
Call-in Number:
Webcast cit.com/investor
Please dial-in to the call or connect to the webcast at least 15 minutes       prior to register and/or download any necessary software. A replay of       the call will be available until 11:59 PM EST on December 10, 2015.
Conference Replay:
Webcast cit.com/investor
Information in CIT's earnings release and comments made by management       during the conference call described in this release speak only as of       the date and time of such call. CIT expressly disclaims and undertakes       no responsibility to update or alter such information based on new       information, future events or otherwise.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
CIT thought leadership content can be found at View from the Middle™ ( cit.com/viewfromthemiddle )       and our CIT Point of View blog ( cit.com/pov ).       View our corporate video ( cit.com/corporatevideo )       and follow us on Twitter , LinkedIn , YouTube and Facebook .       Register to receive press releases at cit.com/newsalerts .
About CIT
Founded in 1908, CIT ( CIT ) is a financial holding company with more       than $65 billion in assets. Its principal bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,       N.A., (Member FDIC, Equal Housing Lender) has more than $30 billion of       deposits and more than $40 billion of assets. It provides financing,       leasing and advisory services principally to middle market companies       across more than 30       industries primarily in North America, and equipment financing and       leasing solutions to the transportation sector. It also offers products       and services to consumers through its Internet bank franchise and a       network of retail branches in Southern California, operating as OneWest       Bank, a division of CIT Bank, N.A. cit.com
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151016006032/en/
Company Earnings
