Biotech Sector Due Diligence Report Highlights 4 Emerging Companies - Broad Street Alerts
November 24, 2015 8:10 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / November 24, 2015 / Genetic Technologies Limited ( GENE ), Can-Fite BioPharma Ltd. ( CANF ), KaloBios Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( KBIO ), and Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ:SRPT) are four tickers in the biotech space with varying degrees of fundamental strength. A recent slump in the sector has temporarily stymied the IPO pipeline and caused valuations to drop. Notably, through mid-October, the NASDAQ Biotech Index has declined 23% from its all-time high in July 2015. This has set up the sector quite nicely for a rebound and a surge as the decline was likely due to sentimental factors while fundamentals for most companies remained strong. Determining which company has strong fundamentals will prove to be profitable for the patient investor.
For a more detailed report titled "Strong Fundamentals Trump Opinions" containing important due diligence with analyst comments and recommendation on the Biotech Sector please follow the link. There is no cost obligation required to view report.
Copy and paste to browser may be required.
About Broad Street Alerts
We make the connection between sophisticated investors and high quality micro and small cap companies. An issuer of reports that provide a straightforward assessment of the profiled company. They include stocks traded in the NYSE, NASDAQ, and OTCBB exchanges.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements related to anticipated revenues, expenses, earnings, operating cash flows, the outlook for markets and the demand for products. Forward-looking statements are no guarantees of future performance and are inherently subject to uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon, among other things, assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management, including management's own knowledge and assessment of the Company's industry and competition. The Company refers interested persons to its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and its other SEC filings for a description of additional uncertainties and factors, which may affect forward-looking statements. The company assumes no duty to update its forward-looking statements
Compliance Procedure
Content is researched, written and reviewed on a best-effort basis by a 3rd party analyst. However, we are only human and may make mistakes. If you notice any errors or omissions, please notify us. This report was prepared for informational purposes only. A full disclaimer can be found by viewing the full analyst report. We do not hold any positions and have not been compensated in any form for this press release and coinciding reports. For more information and services provided beyond this press release please use contact information provided below.
Contact:
