Biotechs Under 20 Dollars Poised to Breakout
November 23, 2015 3:07 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
LAS VEGAS, NV / ACCESSWIRE / November 23, 2015 / According to Global Analyst Reports, the world market for colorectal cancer is expected to reach $8.8 billion by 2020 and the global pancreatic cancer market is projected to exceed $1.2 billion by 2015.
Propanc Health Group Corporation (PPCH) is developing a drug that could take a major slice of both markets. PPCH is developing new and proprietary treatments for cancer patients suffering from pancreatic and colorectal cancers.
In recent preclinical animal efficacy studies, PPCH has shown significant tumor growth inhibition in pancreatic and ovarian cancers for PRP. The results from these studies were also used to file a new patent specifying a new target efficacious dose range for future human studies.
"We are thrilled with the results and believe it now paves the way for scientific advice meetings with regulatory agencies to determine the development pathway for human studies," said James Nathanielsz, Propanc's Chief Executive Officer, "As a result of achieving this significant milestone, we are convinced PRP, which is a combination of two proenzymes, trypsinogen and chymotrypsinogen, could become a breakthrough treatment in the fight against aggressive tumors like pancreatic and ovarian cancers. In fact, most common solid tumors."
In the pancreatic cancer study, Pan-02 mouse pancreatic tumor cells were orthotopically inoculated (i.e. grafted into its normal place in the body) into immune competent (C57BL/6) mice.Treatment with PRP injected once daily commenced nine days post inoculation, identified as Day 0. At Day 26, significant (p?0.05) reduction in mean tumor weight was observed, 86% inhibition at the efficacious dose compared to the vehicle control.
Adding this new patent to their already impressive treatment increases the potential of the company 10 fold. However, all this potential doesn't matter without the funding to fulfill it, which is not a problem for PPCH:
Secured Financing
PPCH just secured a $4mm dollar financing. For many biotechs the biggest hurdle in their growth is securing working capital throughout the trial phases. Propanc has continued to secure financing at favorable terms while working it's way through the trial phases.
The hope is that this financing will finally bring them to the all important human trials. "I firmly believe this financing puts the Company in a position to rapidly progress PRP towards human trials," said James Nathanielsz, Propanc's Chief Executive Officer.
Possible Uplisting
After completing this important financing for the Company, management will now focus its attention towards up-listing onto a National Exchange, most likely in 2016.
"We believe that up-listing onto a top tier Exchange like the NASDAQ is an important step for the Company to realize value and become a recognized player in the biotech sector. Nevertheless, we will continue to focus on achieving our near term milestones and remain hopeful that market conditions will present an opportunity for up-listing, which shareholders will view positively and welcome as part of the Company's overall growth strategy."
A good sign that PPCH will be able to uplist is their recent inclusion in the OTCQB Venture Index.
Propanc is certainly worth a long look for any biotech investors looking for high yield opportunities.
Read the full report by clicking here: http://bit.ly/1N9W6hV
Take a look at PPCH's stock by Clicking here: http://yhoo.it/1PS2sE9
Review the Company's Investor Presentation: http://bit.ly/1HcXIkz
Speaking of high yield opportunities there are 4 other biotechs we think could be winners along with Propanc.
KaloBios Pharmaceuticals Inc. ( KBIO ) said late Thursday that Martin Shkreli, founder and head of Turing Pharmaceuticals AG, has become its chief executive after he led an investor group that has purchased a 70% stake in the company. Shkreli stirred controversy in recent weeks by acquiring a drug used to treat parasitic infection and immediately hiking the price. The executive and other investors have committed to an equity investment of at least $3 million for KaloBios, and to a $10 million equity financing facility, that must be approved by shareholders. KaloBios had announced last week that it was winding down operations after running out of cash while trying to develop two cancer drugs. The stock surged more than 800% in after-hours trade Wednesday, as news of the deal with Shkreli broke. The shares gained another 17% in premarket trade Friday.
ARCA biopharma Inc. ( ABIO ) has just released 3rd quarter financials, and they are promising. They reported cash on hand that should bring them through the end of 2017. The company expects the DSMB interim analysis of Phase 2B efficacy data to occur in the first half of 2017.
ARCA biopharma develops genetically-targeted therapies for cardiovascular diseases. The Company's lead product candidate, GencaroTM (bucindolol hydrochloride), is an investigational, pharmacologically unique beta-blocker and mild vasodilator being developed for atrial fibrillation. ARCA has identified common genetic variations that it believes predict individual patient response to Gencaro, giving it the potential to be the first genetically-targeted atrial fibrillation prevention treatment. ARCA has a collaboration with Medtronic, Inc. for support of the GENETIC-AF trial. For more information, please visit www.arcabiopharma.com .
Verastem, Inc. ( VSTM ), focused on discovering and developing drugs to treat cancer by the targeted killing of cancer stem cells. VSTM also released their 3rd quarter financials expect their existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will allow them to fund their operating plan and capital expenditure requirements at least through the first half of 2017. While some investors are concerned about the losses, it is really par for the course as a biotech in the development phase. Investors entering here could be handsomely rewarded.
Rexahn Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (RNN) announced the company CEO, Peter D. Suzdak, Ph.D., the Company's Chief Executive Officer, will present at the Stifel 2015 Healthcare Conference. Rexahn's presentation will take place at 3:00 p.m. EST on November 18, 2015 in the Winslow Room at the Palace Hotel in New York City. This presentation could bring a new host of investors RNN's way.
RNN is a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company dedicated to developing novel, best-in-class therapeutics for the treatment of cancer. The Company's mission is to improve the lives of cancer patients by developing next generation cancer therapies that are designed to maximize efficacy while minimizing the toxicity and side effects traditionally associated with cancer treatment. Rexahn's product candidates work by targeting and neutralizing specific proteins believed to be involved in the complex biological cascade that leads to cancer cell growth. Pre-clinical studies show that certain of Rexahn's product candidates may be effective against multiple types of cancer, drug resistant cancers, and difficult-to-treat cancers, and others may augment the effectiveness of current FDA-approved cancer treatments. The Company has a broad oncology pipeline that includes three anti-cancer compounds currently in clinical development: Supinoxin; RX-3117; and Archexin(R), and a novel nanopolymer-based drug delivery platform technology that may increase the bio-availability of FDA-approved chemotherapies.
The biotech industry offers investors some of the best opportunities at massive windfalls. Propanc (PPCH) in particular has proven to be on the right path. The company is receiving the funding they need, is close to human trials, and prepared for an uplisting that could bring a massive new audience to the stock. Be sure to do your due diligence and prepare to benefit from the biotech boom.
Parker Alan Mitchell, Manager
Regal Consulting - International Consulting Firm
San Diego, California 702-575-9157
Consulting - Advertising - Public Awareness
Disclaimer: Sender is not a United States Securities Dealer or Broker or United States Investment Adviser. This email letter and any and all attachments and related documents are never considered to be a solicitation for any purpose in any form or content. Upon receipt of these documents you, as the Recipient, hereby acknowledge this Warning and Disclaimer. These Confidential communications are protected under Gramm-Leach-Bailey Act 15 USC, Subchapter 1, sections 6801-6809 and other laws addressing the disclosure of Non-Public Personal Information.
Confidential: The contents of this message, together with any attachments, are intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which they are addressed and may contain information that is legally privileged, confidential and exempt from disclosure. This communication is for information purposes only and should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy any financial product, an official confirmation of any transaction, or as an official statement of the Sender or its Principals. Email transmission cannot be guaranteed to be secure or error-free. The Sender, its affiliates and or assigns does not represent that this information is complete or accurate and it should not be relied upon as such. All information is subject to change without notice. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this message, or any attachment, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender by return E-mail and delete this message, along with any attachments, from your computer.
Legal Disclaimer
Except for the historical information presented herein, matters discussed in this article contain forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. ACR Communication, LLC. which owns Microcapspeculators.com, is not registered with any financial or securities regulatory authority, and does not provide nor claims to provide investment advice or recommendations to readers of this release. ACR Communication, LLC. which owns, Microcapspeculators.com may from time to time have a position in the securities mentioned herein and may increase or decrease such positions without notice. For making specific investment decisions, readers should seek their own advice. ACR Communication LLC. which owns, Microcapspeculators.com may be compensated for its services in the form of cash-based compensation or in equity in the companies it writes about, or a combination of the two. For this press release ACR Communication, LLC. has been compensated $19,000 by Propanc Health Group, Corp. we expect to be compensated an additional $10,000 by the company.
Contact:
