Biotech Sector Review
August 4, 2015 7:00 AM
?
Done
Focus on 4 Emerging Biotech Companies
NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / August 4, 2015 / Recently, the four tickers Immunomedics Inc. ( IMMU ), KaloBios Pharmaceuticals Inc. ( KBIO ), Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. ( PSTI ), and Arrowhead Research Corp ( ARWR ) have been attracting investors' attention.
While biotech R&D risks exist (e.g., manufacturing complexity, social and ethical issues), the segment continues to see great potential and that is representative of market innovation and investment. However, investor confidence lags pre-recession levels and limits revenue growth somewhat. Nonetheless, recent years have seen some positive news in relation to FDA approvals and U.S. IPOs, which may improve the segment's attractiveness. Biotechnology companies need to focus on improving R&D efficiency in the face of limited resources and investor skepticism.
To pick out the winners, investors must do a lot of research and have in-depth understanding about the industry. Our report gives an overview about the industry, its key success factors, the current stage of the biotechnology industry, as well as our opinions on the four stocks.
Get the full analyst review and conclusion here. There is no cost or obligation required to view analyst report. http://bit.ly/_Biotech_Sector_Report
About Broad Street Alerts
We make the connection between sophisticated investors and high quality micro and small cap companies. An issuer of reports that provide a straightforward assessment of the profiled company. They include stocks traded in the NYSE, NASDAQ, and OTCBB exchanges.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements related to anticipated revenues, expenses, earnings, operating cash flows, the outlook for markets and the demand for products. Forward-looking statements are no guarantees of future performance and are inherently subject to uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon, among other things, assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management, including management's own knowledge and assessment of the Company's industry and competition. The Company refers interested persons to its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and its other SEC filings for a description of additional uncertainties and factors, which may affect forward-looking statements. The company assumes no duty to update its forward-looking statements
Compliance Procedure
Content is researched, written and reviewed on a best-effort basis by a 3rd party research analyst. However, we are only human and may make mistakes. This report was prepared for informational purposes only. A full disclaimer can be found by viewing the full analyst report. We do not hold any positions and have not been compensated in any form for this press release and coinciding reports. For more information and services provided beyond this press release please use contact information provided below. If you notice any errors or omissions, please notify us.
Contact:
