Apple Names Jeff Williams Chief Operating Officer
Johny Srouji Named to Executive Team; Phil Schiller Adds Ecosystem Responsibilities
Tor Myhren Joins Apple
Apple Inc. December 17, 2015 10:00 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that Jeff Williams has been named chief operating       officer and Johny Srouji is joining Apple’s executive team as senior       vice president for Hardware Technologies. Phil Schiller, senior vice       president of Worldwide Marketing, will expand his role to include       leadership of the revolutionary App Store® across all Apple platforms.       Apple also announced that Tor Myhren will join Apple in the first       calendar quarter of 2016 as vice president of Marketing Communications,       reporting to CEO Tim Cook.
“We are fortunate to have incredible depth and breadth of talent across       Apple’s executive team. As we come to the end of the year, we’re       recognizing the contributions already being made by two key executives,”       said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “Jeff is hands-down the best operations       executive I’ve ever worked with, and Johny’s team delivers world-class       silicon designs which enable new innovations in our products year after       year.”
Cook continued, “In addition, Phil is taking on new responsibilities for       advancing our ecosystem, led by the App Store, which has grown from a       single, groundbreaking iOS store into four powerful platforms and an       increasingly important part of our business. And I’m incredibly happy to       welcome Tor Myhren, who will bring his creative talents to our       advertising and marcom functions.”
Jeff joined Apple in 1998 as head of worldwide procurement and in 2004       he was named vice president of Operations. Since 2010 he has overseen       Apple’s entire supply chain, service and support, and the social       responsibility initiatives which protect more than one million workers       worldwide. Jeff played a key role in Apple’s entry into the mobile phone       market with the launch of iPhone®, and he continues to supervise       development of Apple’s first wearable product, Apple Watch®.
In nearly eight years at Apple as vice president of Hardware Technologies, Johny Srouji has built one of the world’s strongest and       most innovative teams of silicon and technology engineers, overseeing       breakthrough custom silicon and hardware technologies including       batteries, application processors, storage controllers, sensors silicon,       display silicon and other chipsets across Apple’s entire product line.       Educated at Technion, Israel’s Institute of Technology, Johny joined       Apple in 2008 to lead development of the A4, the first Apple-designed       system on a chip.
With added responsibility for the App Store, Phil Schiller will focus on       strategies to extend the ecosystem Apple customers have come to love       when using their iPhone, iPad®, Mac®, Apple Watch and Apple TV®. Phil       now leads nearly all developer-related functions at Apple, in addition       to his other marketing responsibilities including Worldwide Product       Marketing, international marketing, education and business marketing.       More than 11 million developers around the world create apps for Apple’s       four software platforms — iOS, OS X®, watchOS™ and tvOS™ — as well as       compatible hardware and other accessories, and customers have downloaded       more than 100 billion apps across those platforms.
Tor Myhren joins Apple from Grey Group, where he has served as chief       creative officer and president of Grey New York. Under his leadership,       Grey was named Adweek’s Global Agency of the Year for both 2013 and       2015. As vice president of Marketing Communications at Apple, Tor will       be responsible for Apple’s advertising efforts and will lead an       award-winning team that spans a broad range of creative disciplines from       video, motion graphics and interactive web design to packaging and       retail store displays.
Tor will succeed Hiroki Asai, who earlier announced plans to retire       after 18 years in graphic design and marketing communications roles at       Apple.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple’s four software       platforms — iOS, OS X, watchOS and tvOS — provide seamless experiences       across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services       including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s       100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth,       and to leaving the world better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, App Store, iPhone, Apple       Watch, iPad, Mac, Apple TV, OS X , watchOS, tvOS and the Apple logo are       trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks       of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151217005377/en/
Information Technology
