Apple Announces New ResearchKit Studies for Autism, Epilepsy & Melanoma
Researchers from Duke University, Johns Hopkins and Oregon Health & Science University Launch New Medical Studies Using ResearchKit
Apple October 15, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that ResearchKit™ is enabling new research       studies on autism, epilepsy and melanoma. ResearchKit turns iPhone® into       a powerful tool for medical research by helping doctors, scientists and       other researchers gather data more frequently and more accurately from       participants using iPhone apps. With ResearchKit, study participants can       review an interactive informed consent process, easily complete active       tasks or submit survey responses, and choose how their health data is       shared with researchers, making contributions to medical research easier       than ever. Researchers and developers have already contributed to       ResearchKit, with more than 50 researchers adding to the open source       framework.
“We’re honored to work with world-class medical institutions and provide       them with tools to better understand diseases and ultimately help people       lead healthier lives,” said Jeff Williams, Apple’s senior vice president       of Operations. “In just six months, ResearchKit apps studying everything       from asthma and diabetes to Parkinson’s disease, are already providing       insights to scientists around the world and more than 100,000       participants are choosing to contribute their data to advance science       and medical research.”
With user permission, researchers designing studies using ResearchKit       can also access data from the Health app such as weight, blood pressure,       glucose levels, and other data measured by third-party devices and apps,       to capture real-time data right from the iPhone. Access to the       accelerometer, microphone, gyroscope and GPS sensors in iPhone deliver       additional insight into a participant’s gait, motor impairment, fitness,       speech and memory, delivering more objective data to medical researchers.
New ResearchKit Studies
Autism: Duke University and Duke Medicine are launching “Autism & Beyond” for parents with concerns about autism and other developmental       issues. The Duke research team is looking at whether the front-facing       camera on an iPhone can be used to detect signs of developmental issues       at a much younger age. The app uses novel emotion detection algorithms       to measure a child’s reaction to videos shown on iPhone. Duke is       partnering with Peking University in China and other international       partners to conduct the study.
“Autism & Beyond combines well-established screening questionnaires with       a new video technology that makes it possible to analyze the emotions of       children so that we may one day be able to automate the screening for       conditions such as autism and anxiety,” said Ricky Bloomfield, Director       of Mobile Technology Strategy and Assistant Professor in Internal       Medicine & Pediatrics at Duke University. “ResearchKit enables us to put       an entire medical study in a single app, reaching so many more people       than we ever could before.”
Epilepsy: The EpiWatch app developed by Johns Hopkins is the       first study of its kind to be conducted with Apple Watch using       ResearchKit. The study will test whether the wearable sensors included       in Apple Watch can be used to detect the onset and duration of seizures.       During the first phase of this study, researchers will use a custom       complication on the Apple Watch to provide patients with one-touch       access to trigger the custom watch app to capture accelerometer and       heart rate sensor data to capture the digital signature of their seizure       and send an alert to a loved one. The app will keep a log of all       seizures and the participant’s responsiveness during the event. The app       also helps participants manage their disorder by tracking their       medication adherence and by screening for side effects, while allowing       participants to compare their condition with others in the research       study.
“Epilepsy impacts over 2 million people in the United States. This new       app, designed using ResearchKit, provides patients with interactive       activities that help them manage their condition now, and opens the door       to developing an app that can detect various seizure types and alert       family and caregivers,” says Gregory Krauss, M.D., Professor of       Neurology at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. “Now we       have the opportunity to use technology to monitor seizures across the       country and collect data in a totally new way.”
Melanoma: Oregon Health & Science University is studying whether       digital images taken on an iPhone can be used to learn about mole growth       and melanoma risks and could help people better manage skin health by       photographing and measuring mole size over time. Research participants       will be able to document mole changes and share them directly with       health professionals, and researchers will be able to capture images       from tens of thousands of iPhone users around the globe to help create       detection algorithms which can be used in future studies to potentially       screen for melanoma.
“Melanoma is the poster child for early detection. If we can identify       melanomas earlier by creating a simple way for patients to share images       of their moles we can learn more about the progression of the disease,”       said Sancy Leachman, M.D., Ph.D. Chair of Dermatology and Director,       Melanoma Research Program, at the Knight Cancer Institute. ”Expanding       our pool of research participants is a critical step in gaining the       information we need. ResearchKit makes this easier than ever with the       development of a simple iPhone app.”
Expansion of ResearchKit Framework
Researchers and developers using the open source software framework       continue to contribute to ResearchKit with new modules, active tasks and       custom surveys. The Active Task module enables researchers to gather       more targeted data for their study by inviting participants to perform       activities that generate data using iPhone’s advanced sensors. Initial       Active Task modules included tasks to measure motor activities, fitness,       cognition and voice.
In just six months, more than 50 researchers have contributed active       tasks to support new methods of research, including tasks to study tone       audiometry for hearing loss; the ability to measure reaction time       through delivery of a known stimulus to a known response; a timed walk       test; PSAT to assess the speed of information processing and working memory, and the mathematical puzzle Tower of Hanoi often used for       cognition studies. Additional contributions to the ResearchKit framework       include iPad® support, image capture and the ability to add pie charts,       line graphs and discrete graphs for more detailed dashboards.
For more information on ResearchKit, visit www.apple.com/researchkit and for details on how to access the open source framework, visit www.researchkit.org .
To learn more about existing studies using ResearchKit, visit www.appstore.com/researchkit .       ResearchKit studies are available in Austria, China, Germany, Hong Kong,       Switzerland, the UK and the US.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo,       ResearchKit, iPhone and iPad are trademarks of Apple. Other company and       product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151015005570/en/
Apple Watch
