Apple Releases Swift as Open Source
Developer Contributions Will Help Make Swift Even Better and Available on More Platforms
Apple December 3, 2015 3:03 PM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that its Swift™ programming language is now open       source. As an open source language, the broad community of talented       developers — from app developers to educational institutions to       enterprises — can contribute to new Swift features and optimizations and       help bring Swift to new computing platforms. Introduced in 2014, Swift       is the fastest growing programming language in history and combines the       performance and efficiency of compiled languages with the simplicity and       interactivity of popular scripting languages.* Apple today also launched       the Swift.org website with detailed information about Swift open source, including       technical documentation, community resources and links to download the       Swift source code.
“By making Swift open source the entire developer community can       contribute to the programming language and help bring it to even more       platforms,” said Craig Federighi, Apple’s senior vice president of       Software Engineering. “Swift’s power and ease of use will inspire a new       generation to get into coding, and with today’s announcement they’ll be       able to take their ideas anywhere, from mobile devices to the cloud.”
Swift is a powerful and intuitive programming language that gives       developers the freedom and capabilities they need to create the next       generation of cutting-edge software. Swift is easy to learn and use,       even if you’ve never coded before, and it's the first systems       programming language that is as expressive and enjoyable as a scripting       language. Designed for safety, Swift also eliminates entire categories       of common programming errors.
The Swift open source code is available via GitHub and includes support       for all Apple software platforms — iOS, OS X®, watchOS and tvOS™ — as       well as for Linux. Components available include the Swift compiler,       debugger, standard library, foundation libraries, package manager and       REPL. Swift is licensed under the popular Apache 2.0 open source license       with a runtime library exception, enabling users to easily incorporate       Swift into their own software and port the language to new platforms.       For more information about Swift, and access to community resources       visit the new Swift.org .
*Based on RedMonk Programming Language Rankings, June 2015.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple’s four software       platforms — iOS, OS X, watchOS and tvOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services       including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s       100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth,       and to leaving the world better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, Swift, OS X, tvOS and the       Apple logo are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may       be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151203006231/en/
Apple
