Apple Opening Europe’s First iOS App Development Center in Italy
Next Generation of Developers To Gain Skills, Accelerate Entrepreneurship
Apple Inc. 12 hours ago
?
Done
ROME--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced the creation of Europe’s first iOS App       Development Center in Italy, to give students practical skills and       training on developing iOS apps for the world’s most innovative and       vibrant app ecosystem.
The iOS App Development Center, to be located at a partner institution       in Naples, will support teachers and provide a specialized curriculum       preparing thousands of future developers to be part of Apple’s thriving       developer community. In addition, Apple will work with partners around       Italy who deliver developer training to complement this curriculum and       create additional opportunities for students. Apple expects to expand       this program to other countries around the world.
“Europe is home to some of the most creative developers in the world and       we’re thrilled to be helping the next generation of entrepreneurs in       Italy get the skills they need for success,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO.       “The phenomenal success of the App Store is one of the driving forces       behind the more than 1.4 million jobs Apple has created in Europe and       presents unlimited opportunities for people of all ages and businesses       of all sizes across the continent.”
Apple is a powerful engine of growth across Europe and the company’s       ecosystem now supports more than 1.4 million jobs, including 1.2 million       attributable to the community of app creators, software engineers and       entrepreneurs building apps for iOS, as well as non-IT jobs supported       directly and indirectly through the app economy.*
The unprecedented growth of the App Store® has helped developers in       Europe earn over €10.2 billion from selling their apps around the world.
In Italy, over 75,000 jobs are attributable to the App Store and the       developer community is vibrant. IK Multimedia launched its first app in       2009 and since then has had over 25 million downloads. Musement,       launched in 2013, is now available in seven languages and 300 cities       across 50 countries, making it easy for people to book travel and       excursions on the go.
Roberto Macina, CEO and founder of Qurami, said: “Apple’s continued       innovation inspires us to create the best mobile experiences and make       our customers’ lives just a little bit easier. Apple’s app ecosystem is       the anchor for our business, and developing across Apple’s operating       systems has enabled us to easily and quickly bring the Qurami experience       to iPhone, iPad and Apple Watch users.”
Thousands of companies are expanding because of their work with Apple,       which supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in communities large and       small across Europe. Milan-based Laboratorio Elettrofisico makes some of       the most sophisticated magnetization equipment in the world and their       technology enables some of the industry-leading magnetic features found       in Apple products. Apple also works with Europe’s leading manufacturers       of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems, which create tiny components that       power some of the incredible sensor and audio technologies found in iOS       devices.
*Job creation estimate based on research by Dr. Michael Mandel,       Progressive Policy Institute. “App Economy Jobs in Europe,” January 21,       2016.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple’s four software       platforms — iOS, OS X, watchOS and tvOS — provide seamless experiences       across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services       including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s       100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth,       and to leaving the world better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo and App       Store are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be       trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160120006616/en/
Information Technology
