Apple Launches New Clean Energy Programs in China To Promote Low-Carbon Manufacturing and Green Growth
Apple Now Generating Clean Energy for 100% of its Operations in China
Apple October 21, 2015 9:00 PM
?
Done
BEIJING--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced two new programs aimed at reducing the carbon       footprint of its manufacturing partners in China. The programs will       avoid over 20 million metric tons of greenhouse gas pollution in the       country between now and 2020, equivalent to taking nearly 4 million       passenger vehicles off the road for one year.
Apple also announced that construction on 40 megawatts of solar projects       in the Sichuan Province is now complete. These solar installations       produce more than the total amount of electricity used by Apple’s       offices and retail stores in China, making Apple's operations carbon       neutral in China.
“Climate change is one of the great challenges of our time, and the time       for action is now,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “The transition to a new       green economy requires innovation, ambition and purpose. We believe       passionately in leaving the world better than we found it and hope that       many other suppliers, partners and other companies join us in this       important effort.”
First, Apple is significantly expanding its clean-energy investments in       China. Apple plans to build more than 200 megawatts of solar projects in       the northern, eastern and southern grid regions of China, which will       produce the equivalent of the energy used by more by than 265,000       Chinese homes in a year and will begin to offset the energy used in       Apple’s supply chain.
Second, Apple is launching a new initiative to drive its manufacturing       partners to become more energy efficient and to use clean energy for       their manufacturing operations. Apple will partner with suppliers in       China to install more than 2 gigawatts of new clean energy in the coming       years.
Apple also will share best practices in procuring clean energy and       building high-quality renewable energy projects, and provide hands-on       assistance to some suppliers in areas like energy efficiency audits,       regulatory guidance and building strong partnerships to bring new clean       energy projects to China.
As part of Apple’s industry-leading program, Foxconn will construct 400       megawatts of solar, starting in the Henan Province, by 2018. Foxconn has       committed to generate as much clean energy as its Zhengzhou factory       consumes in final production of iPhone.
“We are excited to embark on this initiative with Apple. Our companies       share a vision for driving sustainability and I hope that this renewable energy project will serve as a catalyst for continued efforts to promote       a greener ecosystem in our industry and beyond,” said Terry Gou, founder       and CEO of Foxconn Technology Group. “Sustainability is a core pillar in       Foxconn’s strategy and we are committed to investing in green       manufacturing.”
“Being responsible, protecting air and water, and driving clean energy       are at the heart of Apple’s commitment to China,” said Lisa Jackson,       Apple’s vice president of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives.       “These projects go beyond Apple’s operations in China to help our       suppliers adopt clean renewable energy.”
Apple has taken significant steps to protect the environment by       transitioning from fossil fuels to clean energy. Today the company is       powering 100 percent of its operations in China and the US, and more       than 87 percent of its worldwide operations, with renewable energy.
Learn more about Apple’s environmental efforts at www.apple.com/environment .
Apple in China
Apple operates 19 corporate offices and 24 retail stores in Greater       China, directly employing 10,000 people. In total, Apple has helped       create and support over 4.4 million jobs in China, including at least       1.4 million iOS app developer jobs and other positions related to the       iOS ecosystem.
Developers in China have earned more than $4 billion through the       worldwide sale of apps on the App Store®, with over half of that amount       paid in the last 12 months alone.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo and App       Store are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be       trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151021006836/en/
Apple
