Compare Brokers
Enhanced Editions of Harry Potter Series Now Available Exclusively on iBooks for iPhone, iPad & iPod touch
For the First Time, Fans Can Enjoy All Seven Beloved Harry Potter Books in a New & Immersive Way
Apple October 8, 2015 7:00 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif. & LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that enhanced editions of all seven books in J.K.       Rowling’s Harry Potter series are now available exclusively on the       iBooks Store? for readers around the world to enjoy on their iPhone®,       iPad®, iPod touch® and Mac®. Customers can download individual books       featuring full original text, interactive animations and elaborate       artwork bringing these beloved stories to life in a unique way. Harry       Potter fans will also find annotations throughout their literary       journey, written by the author herself.
“I’m thrilled to see the Harry Potter books so beautifully realised on       iBooks for the digital world; the artwork and animations in these       enhanced editions bring the stories alive in a delightful new way,” said       J.K. Rowling.
“Harry Potter fans are going to love how their favorite stories come to       life,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “J.K. Rowling’s legendary series is       perfect for enjoying on your iPad or iPhone and we’re thrilled to offer them exclusively on the iBooks Store.”
Until now, the Harry Potter digital books have only been available for       readers to purchase through the Pottermore Shop. Starting today, iBooks®       users can experience the books with all new exclusive custom covers for       each title, and typography including the custom Harry Potter typefaces       and new section headers and drop caps.
The iBooks Store is available in 52 countries and offers dozens of       categories including cookbooks, history books, biographies, picture       books and children’s books, with free books available in 155 countries.
Availability
Today, the Harry Potter Enhanced Editions are available in English for       $9.99 (USD) each in 32 countries. Pre-orders also begin today for       French, German and Spanish versions, and will be available on November 9       in 18 additional countries.
Harry Potter fans can explore other magical content including Harry       Potter movies, soundtrack albums and apps on the custom Harry Potter       page on iBooks at www.iTunes.com/HarryPotter .
About Pottermore
Pottermore is the digital entertainment, news and e-commerce company       from J.K. Rowling, inspired by the Harry Potter books and the wider       Wizarding World. Launched in 2012, it is also the global publisher of       the Harry Potter eBooks and digital audio books. As the digital heart of       J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World, pottermore.com is dedicated to unlocking       the power of imagination. It offers news, features, and articles as well       as new and previously unreleased writing by J.K. Rowling.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, iBooks       Store, iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac and iBooks are trademarks of Apple.       Other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective       owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151008005348/en/
Harry Potter
