James Bell Joins Apple’s Board of Directors
Apple Inc. October 1, 2015 10:00 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that James A. Bell, former chief financial       officer and corporate president of The Boeing Company, has been elected       to Apple’s board of directors. Bell brings more than four decades of       experience in finance, strategic planning and leadership in complex       organizations. During his 38-year career at Boeing, he also oversaw       Boeing Capital Corporation and Boeing Shared Services, and was interim       CEO of The Boeing Company in 2005.
“James brings a wealth of global, financial and industrial experience       from his successful career at Boeing as corporate president and CFO,”       said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “I am thrilled to welcome him to Apple’s       board of directors and I look forward to working with him.”
“We look for outstanding individuals to strengthen our board’s breadth       of talent and depth of knowledge, and we are very happy to have       identified a fantastic person in James Bell,” said Art Levinson, Apple’s       chairman. “I’m confident that he will make many important contributions       to Apple.”
“I am an avid user of Apple products and have a tremendous respect for       the company’s ability to innovate,” said Bell. “I am delighted to join       the Apple board and look forward to contributing to its continued       success in any way I can.”
Bell is a member of the board of directors of JP Morgan Chase, Dow       Chemical Company, CDW, and a Trustee of Chicago’s Rush University       Medical Center. He has also worked with New Leaders for New Schools to       help develop talented teachers and principals, and served on many       community-based boards. Bell attended California State University, Los       Angeles where he earned a bachelor’s degree in Accounting.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are       trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks       of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151001005904/en/
Information Technology
