New Music Apps from Apple Transform iOS Devices into Handheld Studios for Songwriters & Beatmakers
Capture Inspiration Whenever it Strikes with New Music Memos
Make Music Like a DJ with New Live Loops in GarageBand
Apple January 20, 2016 11:00 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced a new addition and a major update to its family       of music-making apps for iOS that make it easy for people to tap into       their musical potential and create incredible music no matter where they       are. An all-new app called Music Memos lets musicians and songwriters       quickly capture, organize and develop their musical ideas right on their       iPhone®. And a major update to GarageBand® for iOS introduces multiple       new features, including Live Loops, a fun way for anyone to make music       like a DJ using only their iPhone or iPad®.
“Musicians around the world, from the biggest artists to aspiring       students, use Apple devices to create amazing music; the innovative new       Music Memos app will help them quickly capture their ideas on iPhone and       iPad whenever inspiration strikes,” said Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior       vice president of Worldwide Marketing. “GarageBand is the most popular       music creation app in the world, and this update helps everyone easily       tap into their musical talent with the powerful new Live Loops and       Drummer features, and adds support for the larger iPad Pro screen and 3D       Touch on iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus.”
“Sometimes ideas come faster than I can get them into my notebook so       I've used Voice Memos and Notes to quickly capture songs before they're       lost. Music Memos is like if those two apps came together to form some       kind of superpower for songs,” said Ryan Adams, critically acclaimed       singer-songwriter and producer. “It quite literally blew my mind how       Music Memos could transform a single guitar idea into a whole       composition with a virtual drummer loose enough that it felt like you       were having your mind read by some A.I. musician and a choice of       stand-up or electric bass accompaniments.”
“I recorded my first album using GarageBand and I continue to use it in       my music today,” said T-Pain, Grammy Award-winning artist and producer.       “I love how the new Live Loops in GarageBand lets me quickly build       tracks and beats, and even perform effects like a musical instrument.       It’ll change the way an entire generation makes music.”
Musicians and songwriters around the world have used the Voice Memos app       on their iPhone to quickly record ideas, and many hit songs first       started as Voice Memos. The new Music Memos app is inspired by Voice       Memos and takes the functionality even further by adding       musician-friendly features designed specifically for songwriting and       developing musical ideas. With Music Memos, you can record any musical       instrument through the iPhone’s built-in microphone in a high-quality,       uncompressed format, then name, tag and rate it to start building a       library of your ideas. The app can analyze rhythm and chords of acoustic       guitar and piano recordings, and instantly add drums and a bass line to       provide a virtual, customizable backing band that plays along to match       the feel of your song. Music Memos can even provide basic notation that       displays the chords that were played. With iCloud® your Music Memos are       automatically available across all your Apple devices so you can open       them in GarageBand or Logic Pro X? to further develop your songs.       Musicians can easily share their ideas via email or with their fans       through Apple Music™ Connect. For more information about the new Music       Memos app, visit, www.apple.com/music-memos .
GarageBand for iOS is the world's most popular mobile music creation       app, and the new GarageBand 2.1 update introduces Live Loops, an       entirely new and intuitive way to create amazing music. Inspired by DJ       hardware controllers and drum machines, Live Loops makes it easy for       anyone to create music by simply tapping cells and columns in a highly       visual grid to trigger different looped instruments and samples. The       loops can be performed, arranged and remixed live, and GarageBand       automatically keeps all the beats in sync with perfect time and pitch.       To get you started, Live Loops comes with a library of Apple-designed       loop templates in a variety of genres including EDM, Hip Hop, Dubstep       and Rock, or you can create your own loops from scratch.
GarageBand 2.1 for iOS also includes the new Drummer feature with nine       EDM and acoustic virtual session drummers that provide their own       signature sound, as well as an expanded selection of amps for bass       players. Advanced GarageBand users can now create even more dynamic and       polished sounding songs using new automation features, controls       recording and a new simple EQ. GarageBand 2.1 looks stunning on the       expansive 12.9-inch Retina® display on the new iPad Pro™ and gives you       access to even more controls and room to play. And on iPhone 6s and       iPhone 6s Plus, the app now supports 3D Touch, allowing you to play with       more expression. For more information about the new GarageBand for iOS,       visit, www.apple.com/ios/garageband .
Pricing & Availability
Music Memos is available for free on the App Store® and is compatible       with iPhone 4s and later, and iPad 2 and later. GarageBand 2.1 for iOS       is bundled free with new iOS devices 32GB and larger, is available as a       free upgrade for existing users with compatible iOS 9 devices or later,       and is available to everyone else for $4.99 via the App Store.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple’s four software       platforms — iOS, OS X, watchOS and tvOS — provide seamless experiences       across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services       including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s       100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth,       and to leaving the world better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, iPhone,       GarageBand, iPad, iCloud, Logic Pro X, Apple Music, Retina, iPad Pro and       App Store are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may       be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160120005427/en/
Apple
