OS X El Capitan Available as a Free Update Tomorrow
Refined Experience and Improved Performance Make Your Mac Better than Ever
Apple September 29, 2015 11:00 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that OS X® El Capitan, the latest major release       of the world’s most advanced desktop operating system, will be available       on Wednesday, September 30 as a free update for Mac® users. El Capitan       builds on the groundbreaking features and beautiful design of OS X       Yosemite, refining the Mac experience with updates to window management,       built-in apps and Spotlight® search, and performance improvements to       make everyday activities — like launching and switching apps, opening       PDFs and accessing email — faster and more responsive.
“People love using their Macs, and one of the biggest reasons is the       power and ease-of-use of OS X,” said Craig Federighi, Apple’s senior       vice president of Software Engineering. “El Capitan refines the Mac       experience and improves performance in a lot of little ways that make a       very big difference. Feedback from our OS X beta program has been       incredibly positive and we think customers are going to love their Macs       even more with El Capitan.”
Refinements to the Mac Experience
El Capitan gives you simpler and smarter ways to do the things you do       most with your Mac. A streamlined Mission Control® makes it easier to       see and organize everything you have open on your Mac. With a single       swipe, Mission Control arranges all your windows in a single layer so       you can find the window you need even faster. When your desktop gets       crowded, simply drag a window to the top of your screen to create a new       Space and spread out your work. And the new Split View feature       automatically positions two app windows side-by-side in full screen so       you can work with both apps without distraction.
Spotlight gets even smarter in El Capitan. You can now use Spotlight to       check stock prices, weather conditions and forecasts, sports scores,       schedules and standings, and even athlete information. You can also       search with Spotlight to find a file using natural language. Simply type       “email from Harrison in April” or “presentation I worked on yesterday”       and Spotlight will help you find exactly what you are looking for. You       can resize the Spotlight window to display more results or move it       anywhere on your desktop.
OS X built-in apps are even better in El Capitan. Safari® now features       Pinned Sites to keep your favorite websites open and active and a new       mute button to quickly silence browser audio from any tab. Mail       introduces Smart Suggestions, which recognizes names or events in a Mail       message and prompts you to add them to your contacts or calendar with a       single click. You can also swipe to delete messages, just like in iOS,       and juggle multiple emails while Mail is in full screen. In Photos, you       can now edit locations, batch change descriptions, sort albums by date       or title, and take editing to the next level with third-party editing       extensions from your favorite developers.
El Capitan features an all-new Notes app that lets you drag and drop       photos, PDFs, videos and other files into a note, and add content       directly from other apps, such as Safari web links or Maps locations,       using the Share menu. Easy-to-create checklists help you keep track of       important to-do items, and the new Attachments Browser organizes your       attachments in one simple view, making it easy to find what you’re       looking for. With iCloud®, your notes stay in sync so you can create       notes on one device and edit them or check off items on your other       devices.
Improvements to System Performance
OS X El Capitan improves system performance across your Mac, making many       of the things you do everyday faster and more responsive. Metal™, Apple’s groundbreaking graphics technology, accelerates Core Animation       and Core Graphics to boost system-level rendering by up to 50 percent,       and efficiency by up to 40 percent, resulting in faster graphics       performance for everyday apps.* Metal also takes full advantage of your       CPU and GPU, delivering up to 10 times faster draw call performance for       a richer, more fluid experience in games and pro apps.*
El Capitan also features enhanced international language support,       including a new Chinese system font for both Traditional and Simplified,       with 50,000 beautifully designed characters for crisp on-screen       readability. Chinese keyboard input methods now offer regularly updated       vocabulary lists and a smarter candidate window. El Capitan makes       entering Japanese text faster by automatically transforming Hiragana       into written Japanese and reducing the need to individually select and       confirm word conversions. You can now also select the perfect font for       your documents using four new Japanese typefaces.
Pricing & Availability
OS X El Capitan is available as a free update starting Wednesday,       September 30 from the Mac App Store?. El Capitan supports all Macs       introduced in 2009 and later, and some models introduced in 2007 and       2008.
*Testing conducted by Apple in August 2015 using 2.7GHz Intel Core       i5–based 13-inch MacBook Pro systems with 128GB of flash storage and 8GB       of RAM. Tested with prerelease OS X v10.11. Not all features are       available on all devices. Performance will vary based on system       configuration, application workload, and other factors.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, OS X, Mac,       Spotlight, Mission Control, Safari, iCloud, Metal, Mac App Store and       MacBook Pro are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may       be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150929005578/en/
Information Technology
