Record Debut Weekend Sales of New Products - Report on Apple
November 6, 2015 7:45 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / November 6, 2015 / Trader's Choice has initiated research coverage on Apple Inc. ( AAPL ). Select highlights from the internally released reports are being made available to the general public (included below), with access to the entirety of the research available to new members.
Today, membership is open to readers on a complementary basis at the following URL: http://www.traders-choice.com/pdf?s=AAPL
Highlights from our AAPL Report include:
- Sold a Record 13 million iPhone(R) 6s and iPhone 6s Plus - On September 28, 2015, Apple Inc., the California based technology major, announced record sale of 13 million units of its latest handsets, iPhone(R) 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, during the opening weekend. The results were in line with the analysts' estimates and were up from the sale of 10 million units during the debut of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus last year. Apple informed that sales completed by September 26 will be included in its Q4 2015 results, while sales completed on September 27 will be included in its Q1 2016 results.
- Innovative Features - Elaborating on iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus' features, Apple said the new handsets have been incorporated with a number of innovative features including the 3D touch, which senses how deeply one presses the display and enables one do essential things more quickly and simply. Another feature, Live Photos, bring still images to life, transforming instants frozen in time into unforgettable living memories. 12-megapixel iSight(R) camera, 5-megapixel FaceTime(R) HD camera with Retina(R) Flash, are other distinctive features, making the new handsets far more advanced. These latest handsets are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the most advanced chip ever in a smartphone. Further, the Company stated that the new operating system, iOS 9, brings more intelligence to iPhone with proactive assistance, powerful search and improved Siri features, while protecting users' privacy.
- Pricing & Availability - Available in gold, silver, space gray and the new rose gold metallic finishes, the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus can be bought for a $0 down-payment with 24 monthly payments starting at $27 (US) and $31 (US), respectively, from Apple's retail stores in the US, the Company's website, select carriers and Apple Authorized Resellers.
- New Addition to the Board - More recently on October 01, 2015, Apple announced the appointment of James A. Bell as a new member to its board of directors. Mr. Bell is the former chief financial officer and corporate president at The Boeing Company. Having an experience of more than four decades in finance, strategic planning and leadership, he is also a member of the board of directors of JP Morgan Chase, Dow Chemical Company, CDW, and a Trustee of Chicago's Rush University Medical Center.
To find out how this influences our rating on Apple Inc., read the full report in its entirety here: http://www.traders-choice.com/pdf?s=AAPL
--
About Trader's Choice:
Trader's Choice ("TC") produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. TC has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
TC has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES:
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer"). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer (collectively referred to as the "Production Team") in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. The information in this release has been sourced from a third party data base.
NO WARRANTY
TC, the Author and the Reviewer (collectively referred to as the "Publishers") are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither TC nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://www.traders-choice.com/ .
RESTRICTIONS
TC is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia.
CONTACT
