Record-Breaking Holiday Season for the App Store
App Store Has Now Paid Developers Nearly $40B and Continues to Drive Incredible Job Growth
Apple January 6, 2016 8:30 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced that customers around the world made this holiday       season the biggest ever for the App Store®, setting new records during       the weeks of Christmas and New Year’s.
In the two weeks ending January 3, customers spent over $1.1 billion on       apps and in-app purchases, setting back-to-back weekly records for       traffic and purchases. January 1, 2016 marked the biggest day in App       Store history with customers spending over $144 million. It broke the       previous single-day record set just a week earlier on Christmas Day.
“The App Store had a holiday season for the record books. We are excited       that our customers downloaded and enjoyed so many incredible apps for       iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV, spending over $20 billion       on the App Store last year alone,” said Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior       vice president of Worldwide Marketing. “We're grateful to all the       developers who have created the most innovative and exciting apps in the       world for our customers. We can't wait for what's to come in 2016.”
Worldwide, the App Store has brought in nearly $40 billion for       developers since 2008, with over one-third generated in the last year       alone.
Largely as a result of the App Store’s success, Apple is now responsible       for creating and supporting 1.9 million jobs in the U.S. alone. Nearly       three-quarters of those jobs — over 1.4 million — are attributable to       the community of app creators, software engineers and entrepreneurs       building apps for iOS, as well as non-IT jobs supported directly and       indirectly through the app economy.*
Apple has previously reported that the iOS app economy has created 1.2       million jobs in Europe and 1.4 million jobs in China.
Gaming, Social Networking and Entertainment were among the year's most       popular App Store categories across Apple products, with customers       challenging themselves to Minecraft: Pocket Edition, Trivia Crack and       Heads Up!, and staying in touch with friends and family using Facebook       Messenger, WeChat and Snapchat. Games and subscription apps dominated       this year’s top grossing titles including Clash of Clans, Monster       Strike, Game of War - Fire Age and Fantasy Westward Journey, as well as       Netflix, Hulu and Match.
The launch of the all-new Apple TV® and Apple Watch® have paved the way       for entirely new app experiences, changing how people consume content       through their television and providing useful information at a glance on       Apple’s most personal device yet. Since its launch in October, the new       Apple TV’s most popular apps include Rayman Adventures, Beat Sports and       HBO NOW. Chart-topping apps for Apple Watch owners include fitness apps       Nike+ Running and Lifesum, and iTranslate and Citymapper in the Travel       category.
*Job creation estimate based on research by Dr. Michael Mandel,       Progressive Policy Institute. “App Economy Jobs in the United States,”       January 6, 2016
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple TV. Apple’s four software       platforms — iOS, OS X, watchOS and tvOS — provide seamless experiences       across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services       including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s       100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth,       and to leaving the world better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, App Store,       Apple TV and Apple Watch are trademarks of Apple. Other company and       product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160106005645/en/
Information Technology
