Aegion Corporation to Announce First Quarter 2015 Financial Results
Aegion Corporation April 6, 2015 11:00 AM
?
Done
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Aegion Corporation (Nasdaq Global Select Market: AEGN) will issue its       financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 on Tuesday, April       28, 2015 after market close.
Charles R. Gordon, President and Chief Executive Officer, will host a       conference call on Wednesday, April 29, 2015 at 9:30 a.m. Eastern       Daylight Time to discuss Aegion’s business performance. After opening       remarks, there will be a limited question and answer period.
Any financial or statistical information presented during the call,       including any non-GAAP measures, the most directly comparable GAAP       measures and reconciliation to GAAP results, can be found in the section       titled Webcasts located at: http://www.aegion.com/Investors/Webcasts .       The earnings call will be available as a podcast on the website after       the conclusion of the call.
EARNINGS RELEASE:
Tuesday, April 28, 2015 - After market close
LIVE CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST:
Wednesday, April 29, 2015, 9:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time
Listen-only,       Toll free: 877-312-8824
Listen-only, Toll: 408-940-3830
Confirmation       Code: 21889974
The conference call will be webcast live via the Internet on Aegion’s       website ( www.aegion.com/Investors/Webcasts ).       To access the webcast, connect to the website five to ten minutes prior       to the scheduled time.
CONFERENCE CALL REPLAY:
An audio archive of the webcast, available       approximately two hours after the conclusion of the conference call, can       be found at: www.aegion.com/Investors/Webcasts .
Aegion Corporation is a global leader in infrastructure protection       and maintenance, providing proprietary technologies and services: (i) to       protect against the corrosion of industrial pipelines; (ii) to       rehabilitate and strengthen water, wastewater, energy and mining piping       systems and buildings, bridges, tunnels and waterfront structures; and       (iii) to utilize integrated professional services in engineering,       procurement, construction, maintenance and turnaround services for a       broad range of energy related industries. Our business activities       include manufacturing, distribution, maintenance, construction,       installation, coating and insulation, cathodic protection, research and       development and licensing.
More information about Aegion can be found on its internet site at www.aegion.com .
Company Earnings
