Aegion Corporation Announces Appointment of Christopher B. Curtis to Board of Directors
Aegion Corporation February 5, 2015 1:05 PM
?
Done
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Aegion Corporation (Nasdaq Global Select Market: AEGN) (“Aegion” or the  “Company”) today announced the appointment of Christopher B. Curtis to  its Board of Directors. Mr. Curtis brings more than 30 years of  management, sales and marketing experience to Aegion’s board. The  addition of Mr. Curtis increases the size of Aegion’s Board of Directors  from eight to nine. Mr. Curtis also will serve on the Board’s  Compensation Committee and Strategic Planning and Finance Committee.
In 2014, Mr. Curtis, 57, served as Interim Chief Executive Officer,  President and director of Industry Data Exchange Association, a joint  venture of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association and the  National Association of Electrical Distributors (“IDEA”). IDEA is a  technology service provider and eBusiness standards body of the  electrical industry.
In 2013, Mr. Curtis retired as President and Chief Executive Officer of  Schneider Electric, NA, a division of the $31 billion French-based  energy company Schneider Electric S.A. (“Schneider”), after serving in  such role since 2008. Mr. Curtis was responsible for all of Schneider’s  North American activities, representing $7 billion in revenues, and its  global buildings business, representing $2 billion in revenues. Mr.  Curtis joined Schneider in 1993 and over the next nine years served in  various roles of increasing responsibility. In 2002, Mr. Curtis was  appointed President of Schneider’s Canadian operation. In 2003, he was  appointed Senior Vice President of Sales and Services and in 2006 he was  appointed President of Schneider’s US operations. Following his  retirement, Mr. Curtis continues to serve as a senior corporate advisor  to the company.
In addition to serving on the Board of Directors of Aegion, Mr. Curtis  serves as the non-executive Chairman of Munters AB, a Swedish company,  and on the Board of Directors of Kimball Electronics, Inc. ( KE )  and S&C Electric Company, a private company. He also served as the  Chairman of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association in 2014.
Aegion’s Chairman of the Board of Directors, Alfred L. Woods, commented,  “Chris will be a valuable addition to our Board. His 30+ years of  management, sales and marketing experience will result in meaningful  contributions to our Board’s strategic deliberations. He will be a great  asset to our talented and diverse Board.”
“We look forward to benefitting from the insight that Chris can provide  in helping us achieve our long-term strategic objectives,” said Chuck  Gordon, Aegion’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “Chris’  leadership at Schneider Electric, a multi-billion dollar company, and  his significant sales and marketing experience will add a new dimension  to our already diverse Board.”
About Aegion Corporation
Aegion Corporation is a global leader in infrastructure protection  and maintenance, providing proprietary technologies and services to (i)  protect against the corrosion of industrial pipelines; (ii) rehabilitate  and strengthen water, wastewater, energy and mining piping systems and  buildings, bridges, tunnels and waterfront structures; and (iii) utilize  integrated professional services in engineering, procurement,  construction, maintenance and turnaround services to a broad range of  energy related industries. More information about Aegion can be  found on our internet site at www.aegion.com .
Forward-Looking Statements
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe  harbor” for forward-looking statements. The Company makes  forward-looking statements in this news release that represent the  Company’s beliefs or expectations about future events or financial  performance. These forward-looking statements are based on information  currently available to the Company and on management’s beliefs,  assumptions, estimates or projections and are not guarantees of future  events or results. When used in this document, the words “anticipate,”  “estimate,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “may,” “will” and similar  expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are  not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements  are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions,  including those referred to in the “Risk Factors” section of the  Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,  2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February  28, 2014, and in the Company’s subsequent quarterly reports on Form  10-Q. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the  forward-looking events may not occur. In addition, the Company’s actual  results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested  or projected. Except as required by law, the Company does not assume a  duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new  information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however,  review additional disclosures made by the Company from time to time in  its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use  caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All  forward looking-statements made by the Company in this news release are  qualified by these cautionary statements.
Aegion® and the Aegion® logo are the registered  and unregistered trademarks of Aegion Corporation and its affiliates.
Investment & Company Information
