Aegion Corporation Awarded Three Contracts Valued at Approximately $32 Million
Aegion Corporation June 10, 2015 12:00 PM
?
Done
ST. LOUIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Aegion Corporation (“Aegion” or the “Company”) (Nasdaq Global Select       Market: AEGN) today announced that its Corrosion Protection platform was       recently awarded three contracts with a combined value of approximately       $32 million.
The Aegion Coatings Services group within the Corrosion Protection       platform was awarded a contract in the Caspian Sea region to perform       outer diameter field coatings for a 300-mile onshore natural gas       pipeline expansion. The project is expected to begin in the fall of 2015       and be completed by the end of 2017.
Aegion’s subsidiary, The Bayou Companies, LLC, was awarded two pipe       coating contracts at its Louisiana facility. The first requires the       application of a multi-layer corrosion protection coating and a       proprietary temperature and pressure control insulation coating to a       14-mile transmission pipeline associated with a Gulf of Mexico deepwater       oil field development. The insulation coating portion of the contract       will be applied onsite by Bayou Wasco Insulation, LLC, a joint venture       between Aegion and Malaysian-based Wasco Energy, Ltd. The project is       expected to begin in the fall of 2015 and conclude in early 2016. The       second project consists of a fusion bonded epoxy coating for corrosion       protection in combination with a concrete buoyancy control coating for a       32-mile pipeline that will transport crude oil from existing facilities       in the Gulf Coast to various refineries in the region. This project is       expected to begin this summer and conclude by the first quarter of 2016.
Greta Voss, President of Aegion’s Corrosion Protection platform,       commented, “We are very pleased to be awarded these contracts, which       introduce our field pipe protection coating capabilities in the Caspian       region and add to an improved backlog of pipeline coating projects in       the Gulf Coast region of the United States. We look forward to the       successful completion of these projects, which will help safeguard these       vital pipeline assets for our customers.”
About Aegion Corporation
Aegion Corporation’s mission is to keep infrastructure working better,       safer and longer for customers throughout the world. Aegion provides       proprietary technologies and services: (i) to protect against the       corrosion of industrial pipelines; (ii) to rehabilitate and strengthen       water, wastewater, energy and mining piping systems and buildings,       bridges, tunnels and waterfront structures; and (iii) to utilize       integrated professional services in engineering, procurement,       construction, maintenance and turnaround services for a broad range of       energy related industries. More information about Aegion can be found at www.aegion.com .
About Bayou Companies, LLC
Bayou has provided services to the oil and gas pipeline industry for       over 70 years, offering premier deepwater coating, insulation and       prefabrication in North America and high-quality anticorrosion and       insulated pipe coating in Western Canada. More information about Bayou       can be found at www.bayoucompanies.com .
About Bayou Wasco Insulation, LLC
Bayou Wasco Insulation, LLC, is a joint venture between Aegion       Corporation and Wasco Energy, Ltd. Bayou Wasco provides offshore       insulation services to customers in the United States, Gulf of Mexico,       Central America and the Caribbean. More information about Bayou Wasco       can be found at http://www.bayoucompanies.com/Services/Coating-Services/Insulation-Coating.aspx .
About Coating Services
Coating Services, within Aegion’s Corrosion Protection platform,       consists of CCSI and CRTS, two field welded pipe joint coating       businesses. CRTS and CCSI use innovative robotic and other custom       equipment to apply internal and external field joint coatings to prevent       corrosion in offshore and onshore pipelines. Coating Services serves       customers all over the world from Chile and Brazil to Saudi Arabia and       North America. More information about Coating Services can be found at www.coatingrobotics.com and www.commercialcoating.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe       harbor” for forward looking statements. Aegion makes forward-looking       statements in this presentation that represent the Company’s beliefs or expectations about future events or financial performance. These       forward-looking statements are based on information currently available       to Aegion and on management’s beliefs, assumptions, estimates and       projections and are not guarantees of future events or results. When       used in this presentation, the words “anticipate,” “estimate,”       “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “may,” “will” and similar expressions are       intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the       exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are       subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions,       including those referred to in the “Risk Factors” section of Aegion’s       Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 as filed       with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2015 and in       Aegion’s subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. In light of these       risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events       discussed may not occur. In addition, Aegion’s actual results may vary       materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested or projected.       Except as required by law, Aegion does not assume a duty to update       forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,       future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional       disclosures made by Aegion from time to time in its filings with the       Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use caution and do not place       reliance on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements       made by Aegion in this presentation are qualified by these cautionary       statements.
Aegion®, Bayou®,       Bayou Wasco®, CRTS®, CCSI® and the Aegion® logo are the registered       trademarks of Aegion Corporation and its affiliates.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150610006023/en/
Contact:
