American Airlines is taking the first step in the evolution of its award-winning AAdvantage« loyalty program. In the second half of 2016, the program will shift how customers earn award miles from distance flown to dollars spent. Award redemption rates will be adjusted with some award levels increasing, while others will be decreasing. Additionally, American will offer the best elite-qualifying mile multipliers in the industry and simplify the elite qualification process to better reward customers.


"American Airlines has spent the last two years being singularly focused on integration. Now we're at a point where we can begin to look ahead and lay the foundation for the future of the AAdvantage program to ensure we're rewarding our most loyal customers with the benefits they value the most," said Suzanne Rubin, President of AAdvantage. "We seamlessly integrated our programs in 2015, and we're excited about the opportunities that the program will offer our customers in the years to come."

Earning Award Miles
In the second half of 2016, when traveling on flights marketed by American, members will begin earning award miles based on the price of the ticket purchased (base fare plus carrier-imposed fees, excluding government-imposed taxes and fees) and that member's elite status level.

AAdvantage members will receive five miles for every U.S. dollar spent on the base fare and carrier-imposed fees. Gold members will receive seven miles, Platinum members will receive eight and Executive Platinum members will receive 11 miles per dollar spent.

earning Award Miles
In the second half of 2016, when traveling on flights marketed by American, members will begin earning award miles based on the price of the ticket purchased (base fare plus carrier-imposed fees, excluding government-imposed taxes and fees) and that member's elite status level.

AAdvantage members will receive five miles for every U.S. dollar spent on the base fare and carrier-imposed fees. Gold members will receive seven miles, Platinum members will receive eight and Executive Platinum members will receive 11 miles per dollar spent.
Upgrade Programs
The AAdvantage program provides complimentary, auto-requested upgrades for all elite members on domestic flights 500 miles or less, and AAdvantage Executive Platinum members receive complimentary, auto-requested upgrades on all domestic flights regardless of length.

With the higher EQM earn rates in 2016, beginning March 1, Gold and Platinum members will earn four 500-mile upgrades for every 12,500 EQMs earned during the membership year. The cost of a 500-mile upgrade will be 40 dollars when purchased online, at the airport or from an agent.

Beginning January 1, 2016, Executive Platinum members will receive four systemwide upgrades upon qualification for the 2017 membership year, with the opportunity to earn up to four more based on flight activity û two for every 50,000 EQMs earned above the 100,000 EQM threshold up to 200,000 EQMs.

The AAdvantage program was the first loyalty program in the industry, created in 1981. It has seen several changes over the decades and will continue to evolve to offer the best program for its members based on the access and rewards they desire most. As the initial phases roll out in 2016, American is committed to sharing its plans with customers as clearly and as soon as practicable. Additional details about the 2016 AAdvantage program are available at aa.com/aadvantage2016.