NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / November 6, 2015 / Trader's Choice has initiated research coverage on Facebook, Inc. (FB). Select highlights from the internally released reports are being made available to the general public (included below), with access to the entirety of the research available to new members. Today, membership is open to readers on a complementary basis at the following URL: http://www.traders-choice.com/pdf?s=FB Highlights from our FB Report include: - Introduced an All New Expanded, Personalized Notifications Tab - On October 26, 2015, Facebook, Inc. announced that the social-networking leader is rolling out an update to the notifications tab in the mobile app. In a move to make it more expanded and personalized, the Company has redesigned the notification tab. While the previous version consisted of an ongoing list of updates in chronological order; the new updated version of the tab will now surface personalized information, organized as ‘cards’ instead of a simple list. Based on one’s activity and location, a user will also have an option to add more cards. - More Details on the New Notification Tab - Describing the newly added feature, Facebook said this move to update the notification tab was based on the feedback that people wanted to add important information that they can easily see in one place. With this new feature, users can see and customize timely information including his friends’ milestones, like birthdays and life events; sports scores and TV reminders, based on pages they have liked; and upcoming events that they have joined. For instance, they might get notifications based on the pages they have liked. In addition, if they enable Location History in the mobile app, they can also add additional, optional information that is tailored exclusively for them, based on their location. Once the app knows their location, they will be able to see notifications pertaining to local events and news, weather updates and severe weather alerts, as well as movies playing near them, or nearby restaurants. - Announced Plans to Roll-Out the Feature in US - With this update, while the current notification settings will not change, users can still adjust them by going to the ‘Settings’ tab. They can also customize the info they see by tapping the arrow to the right of each card, or Add More Cards at the bottom of the tab. The new notification tab will be gradually rolling out to all Android and iPhone users in the US, according to Facebook. To find out how this influences our rating on Facebook, Inc., read the full report in its entirety here: http://www.traders-choice.com/pdf?s=FB -- About Trader's Choice: Trader's Choice (“TC”) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. TC has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below. TC has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document. PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES: The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the “Author”) and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the “Reviewer"). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer (collectively referred to as the “Production Team”) in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. The information in this release has been sourced from a third party data base. NO WARRANTY TC, the Author and the Reviewer (collectively referred to as the “Publishers”) are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. NOT AN OFFERING This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither TC nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://www.traders-choice.com/. RESTRICTIONS TC is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia. CONTACT For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at: E-mail: press (at) traders-choice.com SOURCE: Trader's Choice 