NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / February 05, 2016 / www.ValuableInvestment.com has been tracking, trading and making investors money for over 10 years and we recently lined up the perfect trade on FB, TWTR, YHOO and JD. Below is an excerpt from each of our trades strategies, but we highly encourage all shareholders of these companies to sign up for a our free alerts at www.ValuableInvestment.com/alerts Click here to get our 4 top trade Alerts for the day www.ValuableInvestment.com/dailytradealerts 1. Everyone knows FB, but not everyone knows how to trade it with pinpoint accuracy like us. 46 percent profit in 1 year trading Facebook is not bad at all and yesterday it closed just over $110 alerting us of a new trade. Don't miss this chance to sign up for our Facebook trade alerts at www.ValuableInvestment.com/FB-Alerts 2. If we could tweet we love TWTR we would. In fact we might later today. Some of the most profitable alerts Year-to-Date have been issued on TWTR. If you are a shareholder and looking to get the edge on TWTR do so by signing up for our alerts on www.ValuableInvestment.com/TWTRdailyAlerts. TWTR had a volume alert yesterday, along with a 50- and 200-day indication and RSI indication; we love TWTR and we will alert you of our next move. 3. Trade alerts were sounding throughout the trading session yesterday like the sweet sound of a cash register opening and closing. If you aren't locking in profits all day on YHOO you are doing something wrong and need our daily alerts for YHOO. Join us today to get alerts at www.ValuableInvestment.com/Yhoo-Alert. YHOO was up 5.3 percent yesterday with a smashing number for traders and liquidity was through the roof. 4. JD.com has had a few stunning trade set ups in the last 3 weeks for investors. Quick 3 and 4 percent trade rips have been what JD.com is all about for us these days. We love trading this company. High expectations were met yesterday when the shares rallied up 4 percent to close just shy of $25.00. Get our daily alerts on JD at www.ValuableInvestment.com/JD-daily. What's the full story for these stocks? See below or visit www.ValuableInvestment.com/real-story Facebook Inc.'s stock declined 1.95%, to close the day at $110.49. The stock recorded a trading volume of 38.74 million shares, above its three months average volume of 30.31 million shares. Facebook Inc.'s shares have gained 7.55% in the last one month and 7.71% in the previous three months. Furthermore, the stock has surged 46.09% in the past one year. The company's shares are trading 6.72% and 17.89% above their 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, Facebook Inc. traded at a PE ratio of 85.65 and has a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 60.10. Sign up and read the free notes on FB at: http://valuableinvestment.com/FB On Thursday, shares in Twitter Inc. recorded a trading volume of 18.20 million shares, lower than their three months average volume of 19.63 million shares. The stock ended the day 2.11% higher at $16.91. The company is trading below its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 22.15% and 43.05%, respectively. Furthermore, shares of Twitter Inc. have an RSI of 37.55. The complimentary notes on TWTR can be downloaded in PDF format at: http://valuableinvestment.com/TWTR Yahoo! Inc.'s stock finished Thursday's session 5.31% higher at $29.15. A total of 28.54 million shares were traded, which was above its three months average volume of 16.59 million shares. The company's shares are trading below their 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 9.07% and 18.32%, respectively. Yahoo! Inc.'s stock traded at a PE ratio of 116.60 and has an RSI of 42.96. Register for free on ValuableInvestment.com and access the latest research on YHOO at: http://valuableinvestment.com/YHOO On Thursday, shares in JD.com Inc. ended the session 4.83% higher at $24.96. The stock reported a trading volume of 20.94 million shares, above its three months average volume of 11.44 million shares. The company is trading 15.71% below its 50-day moving average and 17.57% below its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of JD.com Inc. have an RSI of 36.65. The complete research on JD is available for free at: http://valuableinvestment.com/JD -- About ValuableInvestment.com: Valuable Investment was founded in 2006 and has been successfully alerting investors and shareholders of the most profitable ways to earn a living on Wall Street. A decade is a very long time so we must be doing something right. We encourage everyone to come and try our strategy and see how we have been changing the foundation of research for years. PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES: The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer"). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer and the Sponsor have not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author, the Reviewer, or the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the "Production Team") in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. NO WARRANTY ValuableInvestment.com, the Author, the Reviewer and the Sponsor (collectively referred to as the "Publishers") are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. NOT AN OFFERING This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither valuableinvestment.com nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://valuableinvestment.com/ RESTRICTIONS ValuableInvestment.com is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia. CONTACT For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at: E-mail: press@valuableinvestment.com SOURCE: ValuableInvestment.com