AGCO and Trimble Announce Collaborative Solution to Connect Agriculture Data Platforms
Integration Enables Growers to Access their AGCO Machine and Task Data within the Trimble Connected Farm Solution
Trimble July 27, 2015 6:30 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
DULUTH, Ga. and SUNNYVALE, Calif., July 27, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- AGCO ( AGCO ), a worldwide manufacturer and distributor of agricultural equipment and infrastructure, and Trimble ( TRMB ) announced today that they are partnering to deliver wireless connectivity between AGCO's VarioDoc and AgCommand® systems and the Trimble® Connected Farm™ solution. The functionality is expected to be available to customers in North America in September and in Europe, Africa and the Middle East in the fourth quarter of 2015.
"The inclusion of AGCO's AgCommand information into Connected Farm aligns well with Trimble's continued focus on providing a complete solution for growers to manage a mixed fleet of vehicles and implements," said Joe Denniston, vice president of Trimble's Agriculture Division. "AGCO customers now have access to one central location in Connected Farm for monitoring their farm operations including fleet data, rainfall and weather information, commodity quotes, and irrigation monitoring to enable improved decision making from the office to the field."
"This collaboration gives our customers easier access to their operational data for enhanced productivity, mobility and decision making," said Eric Hansotia, senior vice president, Global Harvesting, Crop Care, Advanced Technology Solutions and Dealer Tech Support at AGCO. "Strategic development with platforms like Connected Farm gives growers a single location from which to monitor their entire operation."
The collaboration between Trimble and AGCO allows customers to access their AGCO machine data, via AGCO's telemetry product, AgCommand as well as their agronomic data through AGCO's VarioDoc task file management platform, from within the Connected Farm dashboard. This deeper integration of AGCO and Trimble technologies delivers a more streamlined approach to total farm management, simplifying the grower's ability to access and act on live machine and task data within a single, Web browser-based user interface.
The development expands on the February 2014 announcement of the connection between Trimble's Farm Works Software® and VarioDoc. This new integration will give Trimble customers the option to sync their task data sent via VarioDoc in either Farm Works or Connected Farm. 
The integration between Trimble's Connected Farm and AGCO's AgCommand will be the first to utilize AGCO machine data via the AgCommand API (Application Programming Interface). The API will open globally in the fourth quarter of 2015 to developers and service providers who wish to incorporate machine data into custom applications and tools for growers. This offers more points of access to end users, allowing AgCommand data to be integrated into the grower's farm management platform of choice.
Trimble joins AGCO's growing list of partners that are part of AGCO's Fuse® Technologies open approach to precision agriculture and precision machine management. For more information about AGCO's Fuse Technologies, AgCommand, VarioDoc and other precision farming products, visit: www.AGCOtechnologies.com .
For more information about Connected Farm and Farm Works, visit: www.connectedfarm.com and www.farmworks.com .
About AGCO
AGCO (NYSE: AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and distribution of agricultural equipment. AGCO supports more productive farming through a full line of tractors, combines, hay tools, sprayers, forage equipment, grain storage and protein production systems, seeding and tillage implements and replacement parts. AGCO products are sold through five core equipment brands, Challenger®, Fendt®, GSI®, Massey Ferguson® and Valtra® and are distributed globally through a combination of approximately 3,100 independent dealers and distributors in more than 140 countries. Founded in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA, USA. In 2014, AGCO had net sales of $9.7 billion. For more information, visit: http://www.AGCOcorp.com . For financial news, information and events, follow us on twitter #AGCOIR.
AGCO: 25 years of identity, centuries of history
About Trimble's Agriculture Division
Trimble Agriculture solutions enable customers to maximize efficiency and reduce chemical and fertilizer inputs while also protecting natural resources and the environment. Trimble's precision agriculture solutions cover all seasons, crops, terrains, and farm sizes, and its brand-agnostic strategy allows farmers to use Trimble products on most vehicles in their fleet—regardless of manufacturer. To enable better decision making, Trimble offers the Connected Farm solution which allows farmers to collect, share, and manage information across their farm in real time. To optimize water use, Trimble provides water solutions for irrigation, drainage, and land leveling. Trimble's product suite includes vehicle and implement guidance and steering, as well as a portfolio of correction options that are the most versatile of their kind in the industry. Additional solutions include an unmanned aircraft system (UAS) for aerial imaging and mapping; application control for seed, liquid, and granular products; a harvest solution; and farm management software.
For more information on Trimble Agriculture, visit: www.trimble.com/agriculture .
About Trimble
Trimble (NASDAQ: TRMB) applies technology to make field and mobile workers in businesses and government significantly more productive. Solutions are focused on applications requiring position or location—including surveying, construction, agriculture, fleet and asset management, public safety and mapping. In addition to utilizing positioning technologies, such as GPS, lasers and optics, Trimble solutions may include software content specific to the needs of the user. Wireless technologies are utilized to deliver the solution to the user and to ensure a tight coupling of the field and the back office. Founded in 1978, Trimble is headquartered in Sunnyvale, Calif.
For more information, visit: www.trimble.com .
GTRMB
To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/agco-and-trimble-announce-collaborative-solution-to-connect-agriculture-data-platforms-300118644.html
Industrials
