Compare Brokers
AGCO® Announces Most Open Agricultural Equipment Guidance Systems on the Market
AGCO’s next generation of guidance offers customers seamless integration and more choices than any other agricultural equipment manufacturer
AGCO Corporation September 22, 2015 4:00 PM
?
Done
DULUTH, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
AGCO Corporation ( AGCO ), a world-leading manufacturer and       distributor of agricultural equipment, announced today its next       generation of integrated guidance technology for farm machinery to help       growers maximize outputs. With this new move, users of AGCO’s guidance       systems will have greater choice as to which receivers they employ with       their farm equipment to process the positioning information sent from       the global navigation satellite system (GNSS). This new offering       represents a significant update for VarioGuide, available on AGCO’s Fendt® machines, and for Auto-GuideTM for all other AGCO brands       including Challenger®, Massey Ferguson® and Valtra®.
As part of Fuse®, AGCO’s open approach to precision       agriculture focused on optimizing the farm, these new guidance offerings       bring customers more guidance and correction signal choices than any       other manufacturer. With the new Auto-Guide and VarioGuide equipped AGCO       machines, customers can choose the accuracy level, the correction source       and now also the GNSS receiver—Trimble® or NovAtel®—that       best meet their requirements.
“Growers need solutions focused on reducing farm waste and improving       yields,” said Matt Rushing, vice president, Global Advanced Technology       Solutions (ATS) Product Line at AGCO. “Aligning with our Fuse promise,       this new technology is about openness and facilitation, not limitation.       To do this, we’re changing the way we deploy our technology to let       customers choose what is best for them,” said Mr. Rushing. “With the       support of new partners like Trimble and NovAtel, our customers now have       more freedom and flexibility than ever before, and AGCO adds to its ever       expanding list of Fuse partners.”
These new technologies will become available globally on many AGCO       machines starting in the third and fourth quarters this year on select       tractors and combines in North America, and self-propelled sprayers and       tractors in Western Europe with additional machines to follow in the       future.
For more information about AGCO’s guidance technology, visit www.AGCOtechnologies.com .
About AGCO
AGCO (NYSE: AGCO) is a global leader in the design, manufacture and       distribution of agricultural equipment. AGCO supports more productive       farming through a full line of tractors, combines, hay tools, sprayers,       forage equipment, grain storage and protein production systems, seeding       and tillage implements and replacement parts. AGCO products are sold       through five core equipment brands, Challenger®, Fendt®,       GSI®, Massey Ferguson® and Valtra® and       are distributed globally through a combination of approximately 3,100       independent dealers and distributors in more than 140 countries. Founded       in 1990, AGCO is headquartered in Duluth, GA, USA. In 2014, AGCO had net       sales of $9.7 billion. For more information, visit http://www.AGCOcorp.com .       For company news, information and events, please follow us on Twitter:       @AGCOCorp. For financial news on Twitter, please follow the hashtag       #AGCOIR.
AGCO: 25 years of identity, centuries of history
© 2015 AGCO Corporation. AGCO, Fendt and Fuse are registered trademarks       of AGCO Corporation. Auto-Guide is a trademark of Caterpillar Inc. and       used under license by AGCO. NovAtel is a registered trademark of NovAtel       Inc. Trimble is a registered trademark of Trimble Navigation Limited.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150922006418/en/
Industrials
