SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71660 / March 7, 2014 
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") announced the temporary 
suspension, pursuant to Section 12(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange 
Act"), of trading in the securities of Global Earth Energy, Inc. ("Global Earth"), a Nevada 
corporation based in Wilmington, North Carolina, commencing at 9:30 a.m. EST on March 7, 
2014, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. EDT on March 20, 2014. 
 
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of Global Earth because, among 
other things, of questions regarding the accuracy and completeness of Global Earth's 
representations to investors and prospective investors in Global Earth's public filings with the 
Commission and Global Earth's publicly-available press releases and other public statements. In 
particular, there are questions regarding the accuracy and completeness of Global Earth's public 
assertions relating to its business transactions with Hawk Manufacturing Corp. 
 
The Commission acknowledges FINRA's assistance in this matter. 
 
The Commission cautions brokers, dealers, shareholders, and prospective purchasers that they 
should carefully consider the foregoing information along with all other currently available 
information and any information subsequently issued by the company. 
 
Further, brokers and dealers should be alert to the fact that, pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 under the 
Exchange Act, at the termination of the trading suspension, no quotation may be entered unless 
and until they have strictly complied with all of the provisions of the rule. If any broker or dealer 
has any questions as to whether or not he has complied with the rule, he should not enter any 
quotation but immediately contact the staff in the Division of Trading and Markets, Office of 
Interpretation and Guidance, at (202) 551-5777. If any broker or dealer is uncertain as to what is 
required by Rule 15c2-11, he should refrain from entering quotations relating to Global Earth' 
securities until such time as he has familiarized himself with the rule and is certain that all of its 
provisions have been met. If any broker or dealer enters any quotation which is in violation of 
the rule, the Commission will consider the need for prompt enforcement action. 
 
If any broker, dealer or other person has any information which may relate to this matter, they 
should immediately contact any of the following persons: 
 
William P. Hicks, (404) 842-7675 or HicksW@sec.gov 
Associate Regional Director, Atlanta Regional Office 
 
Aaron W. Lipson, (404) 842-7694 or LipsonA@sec.gov 
Assistant Regional Director, Atlanta Regional Office 

Lucy T. Graetz, (404) 842-7668 or GraetzL@sec.gov 
Senior Staff Attorney, Atlanta Regional Office 