The RCS Capital (RCAP) saga continued to worsen Thursday as Massachusetts regulators charged the company with fraudulent proxy voting and moved to revoke the firmÆs broker-dealer registration in the state.

In addition, RCS Capital says it received a notice from NYSE for noncompliance with the $1 minimum bid price rule, as it shares trade near $0.50. The company has at least six months to stay listed and bring its average share price back to $1. (The stock closed at $0.45, up about 10%, on Thursday.)
More On Legal & Compliance
from The Advisor's Professional Library

    The Few and the Proud: Chief Compliance Officers
    CCOs make significant contributions to success of an RIA, designing and implementing compliance programs that prevent, detect and correct securities law violations.  When major compliance problems occur at firms, CCOs will likely receive regulatory consequences.    
    Preventing and Dealing with Client Complaints
    Although the SEC has not provided specific guidance on how client complaints should be handled, a firmÆs policies and procedures should provide clear direction how to do so, as neglecting complaints can exacerbate a bad situation.

Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin, who is calling for a permanent cease and desist order and administrative fine, says RCAP fraudulently cast shareholder proxy votes on investment programs sponsored by American Realty Capital at the June annual meeting of the Business Development Corp. of America (BDCA), an investment sponsored by American Realty Capital, and at a special September meeting of BDCA.

The September vote was required as part of a proposed deal with Apollo Global Management to buy real estate assets from Nicholas Schorsch, according to GalvinÆs office; Apollo cancelled this deal (which also involved a joint venture) on Monday, though a separate arrangement for Apollo to buy Realty Capital Securities' wholesale distribution business for $6 million, ôa considerably reduced asking price,ö is moving ahead, the regulators say.

(Schorsch was formerly the chairman and chief operating officer of BDCA.)

ôIn both instances, registered agents of Realty Capital Securities located in the Boston office impersonated shareholders, fabricating proxy votes,ö the complaint stated.

ôThis fraudulent activity corrupts the governance of the targeted corporations,ö Galvin said, in a press release. ôVotes taken at corporation meetings affect the rights of investors and their votes should count. Any registered entity whose supervision and oversight is so lax as to allow fabricated proxy votes should not be doing business in the commonwealth.ö

One email cited by GalvinÆs office states: öWe need each and every one of you regardless of excuse and circumstance to focus on this all day today à this à is for your own personal well-being à ( p)lease donÆt put me in a position where IÆm asking you why you are not working on Proxy.ö

Furthermore, regulators in Massachusetts say they were told by an RCS employee that ôif they did not participate in proxies, they would get a call from [RCS Chairman and American Realty Capital President & COO] Michael Weil and would risk termination,ö GalvinÆs office explained.

The complaint also alleges that Realty Capital Securities was paid $375,000 by BDCA to solicit proxy votes ônotwithstanding the inherent conflict with the brokerage firmÆs vested interest in reaching an affirmative vote.ö

The case in Massachusetts came about from an RCS employee who explained how RCS employees pretended to be shareholders and cast proxy votes in favor of management proposals.

ôThe investigation obtained from the proxy firm audio recordings of a June 23 call and a Sept. 29 call, both purportedly from shareholders. The two shareholders denied their voices were on the call,ö explained GalvinÆs office. (The RCS employee on the calls used his Fifth Amendment rights and declined to testify.)

"RCS Capital is aware of the Massachusetts Securities Division's investigation and is fully cooperating with all relevant agencies. RCS Capital has received the complaint and is currently reviewing it," the company said in a statement late Thursday.