NEW YORK, Sept. 16, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Today Bloomberg announced it has signed a long-term data agreement with Twitter that will further enhance financially relevant information found on the social media platform for users of the Bloomberg Professional service. View gallery "Our customers have told us that Twitter helps them uncover early trends, breaking news, and sentiment shifts, which may be indicative of changing market conditions," said Ben Macdonald, Global Head of Product at Bloomberg. "By incorporating real-time information from Twitter into our customers' workflow, Bloomberg makes this data accessible and discoverable so that our clients can react quickly to important news and trends." "Twitter, for us, is an irreplaceable tool given the market impact it has along with the valuable information it can convey," said Dave Greenberger, a trader with Quad Capital. "It is a treasure trove of nuggets to be found if one knows where to search. Bloomberg significantly helps streamline this process and offers a springboard into the rich content that Twitter offers." "For more than 30 years, Bloomberg has been an undisputed leader in real-time information delivery," said Chris Moody, vice president of Twitter data. "Our agreement with Bloomberg highlights the growing importance of Twitter in driving investment and trading decisions. Increased access to this information through the Bloomberg Professional service will continue to accelerate as the adoption of Twitter data through the financial services community grows in importance." Bloomberg's social media offering has continued to grow since the company became the first financial information platform to integrate tweets in April 2013, the same week the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced that companies could use social media posts to disclose material information. The Bloomberg Professional service incorporates financially-relevant news from Twitter for analysis, charting and sharing via Bloomberg Instant Message and Bloomberg Links for desktop and mobile devices through the following features: Bloomberg's social media tools are proprietary and are fully integrated with investment professionals' workflow. More information and analytics about Twitter content on the Bloomberg Professional service is available at {TWEET}, {TWTR}, {SDM}, {BSV} and {BSVM}. To request a demonstration please visit: http://www.bloomberg.com/professional/request-demo About Bloomberg Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas. The company's strength – delivering data, news and analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately – is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which provides real time financial information to more than 325,000 subscribers globally. For more information, visit www.bloomberg.com. The Bloomberg Professional service is owned and distributed by Bloomberg Finance L.P. and its affiliates. About Twitter, Inc. Twitter (TWTR) is a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time. By developing a fundamentally new way for people to consume, create, distribute and discover content, Twitter enables any voice to echo around the world instantly and unfiltered. The service can be accessed at Twitter.com, on a variety of mobile devices, and via SMS. Available in more than 35 languages, Twitter has 316 million monthly active users. For more information, visit about.twitter.com or follow @twitter.   View gallery Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20150223/177195LOGO Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20150916/267237   To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bloomberg-and-twitter-sign-data-licensing-agreement-300144265.html