NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Oct 6, 2015) - "New To The Street" announces with great excitement that it taped Florida's Governor Rick Scott's press conference at the headquarters of one of their feature companies, Oakridge Global Energy Solution, Inc. (OTCQB: OGES). This interview featured Governor Scott speaking about the importance of manufacturing in the USA, and Oakridge Global's commitment to "Made in America." "New To The Street's" Executive Producer, Joyce Glicker, together with Anchor, Erica Ferrari, attended this important press conference. Oakridge Global Energy Solutions, Inc. received aid initiatives, totaling approximately $33,000,000 ($33M approx.), in combination from the State of Florida, County, City and other public sources. This is the second interview in the series with Oakridge Global Energy Solutions, Inc. CEO Steve Barber. "'New To The Street' is excited to be able to deliver such important and relevant interviews on the latest happenings with the companies we represent," says Vince Caruso, President of "New To The Street." Petproducts.com, a site catering to the multibillion dollar pet industry, will be on each "New To The Street" show, featuring manufacturers, stores, and other newly added pet products onto their site. Also, "New To The Street" announces the following newest clients set to be interviewed on its next show, taping on October 22, 2015 in their NYC Studios: - Alliance Bioenergy Plus, Inc., (OTCQB: ALLM) - Soul and Vibe Interactive, Inc., (OTCQB: SOUL) - The Players Network, (OTC PINK: PNTV) - Cardinal Resources, Inc., (OTC PINK: CDNL) The show continues its ongoing interview series with the following current clients: - FLASR Inc., (OTCQB: FLSR) - Accurexa, Inc., (OTCQB: ACXA) - Seen on Screen TV, Inc., (OTCQB: SONT) - bBooth, Inc., (OTCQB: BBTH) - FONU2, Inc/Moon River Studios, (OTCQB: FONU) - Green Polka Dot Box, Inc., (OTCQB: GPDB) "New To The Street" will be implementing ALL these program interviews with Twitter (NYSE: TWTR) in its video marketing beta program. About New To The Street "New To The Street" paves the way to the latest financial issues, offering a blend of business and financial services news reporting and in-depth interviews relating to new products, economic analysis and public company profiles. NTTS is produced by FMW Media Works Corp., a leading provider of business profiles and corporate special programming, and airs as paid-programming on select stations nationwide reaching potentially more than 95 million homes, www.newtothestreet.com.