NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Sep 4, 2015) - "New To The Street" will be broadcasting its latest show the week of September 7, 2015 in the top 5 U.S. markets, New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, and Boston, potentially reaching 75 million households. Check your local listings or for a full listing of stations, please go to NewToTheStreet.com and hit the "Schedule" link, or visit the following URL: http://newtothestreet.tv/schedules This show will feature Accurexa, Inc.'s (OTCQB: ACXA) George Yu, CEO, and Daniel Lim, inventor of the Branch Point Device, with an exciting interview on location at San Francisco's UCSF Medical Center. Also featured in the broadcast is Richard Kaiser, Investor Relations for Encompass Compliance Corp., (OTC PINK: ENCC).  Richard speaks about Encompass' new capital structure and their much needed drug/alcohol services, as it relates to employers' workers compensation insurance coverage. Additionally, Rory Cutaia, CEO of bBooth, Inc., (OTCQB: BBTH), returns for his second interview sharing some exciting news about a joint-venture with the national syndicated show, American Idol. Lastly, Rod Smith, CEO of Green Polka Dot Box, Inc., (OTC PINK: GPDB), shares his vision of how we can all eat organic and GMO free foods at affordable pricing through their "buying collective" on-line store, as well as, how to become a "Health Merchant." "'New To The Street' will be implementing these videos on our program with Twitter, (NYSE: TWTR), in their video marketing beta program," says Vince Caruso, President of "New To The Street." On September 10, 2015, "New To The Street" will be at their state of the art studio in New York City, NY, taping its next series, featuring a variety of clients, both new and old. This taping will showcase: -FLASR, Inc., (OTCQB: FLSR) -Seen on Screen TV, (OTCQB: SONT) -Oakridge Energy Solutions, (OTCQB: OGES) -Mazzal Holdings Corp., (OTCQB: MZZL) -Accurexa, Inc., (OTCQB: ACXA) -bBooth, Inc., (OTCQB: BBTH) -Encompass Compliance Corp., (OTC PINK: ENCC) About New To The Street "New To The Street' paves the way to the latest financial issues, offering a blend of business and financial services news reporting and in-depth interviews relating to new products, economic analysis and public company profiles. New to the Street is produced by FMW Media Works Corp. a leading provider of business profiles and corporate special programming, and airs as paid-programming in the United States reaching more than 100 million homes, visit www.newtothestreet.com.