NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Sep 23, 2015) - "New To The Street" is excited to announce its current line-up for the taping of their newest T.V. series, set for October 22, 2015 at their state of the art studios in New York City, New York. For the first time, Mr. Daniel de Liege, CEO of Alliance Media Group Holdings, Inc. (OTCQB: ALLM), will be on the show, talking about this Florida based public holding company which focuses on the advancement of renewable energy, emerging fuel and energy technologies. Additionally, first timer Mark Bradley, CEO of The Players Network (OTC PINK: PNTV), will be on the show talking about the company's medical marijuana industry operations, their media platform called "NextGen" and their business affiliation with The ArcView Group. Mr. Bradley will provide dialogue, highlighting his mission to create shareholder value by identifying and monetizing opportunities in emerging niche markets. PNTV anticipates growing shareholder value through its long term and aggressive stance in its two main industries, marijuana and media, arguably the fastest growth industries in the US today. This taping will highlight updates from the following companies recently aired: "'New To The Street' is pleased to be able to continually deliver content that is diverse, informative and forward thinking to a growing audience that has come to expect that in our series," says Vince Caruso, President of New To The Street. All "New To The Street" videos continue to be aired through its video marketing beta program with Twitter (NYSE: TWTR). About New To The Street "New To The Street" paves the way to the latest financial issues, offering a blend of business and financial services news reporting and in-depth interviews relating to new products, economic analysis and public company profiles. "New To The Street" is produced by FMW Media Works Corp. a leading provider of business profiles and corporate special programming, and airs as paid-programming on select stations nationwide, potentially reaching more than 95 million homes, visit www.newtothestreet.com.