NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Oct 14, 2015) - "New To The Street" announces with excitement its latest series addition, PetProducts.com. Allen Simon, President and CEO of PetProducts.com has committed up to $500,000 in media time on "New To The Street," for a one year, monthly series, up to 10 minutes per show, highlighting pet industry products, professionals and services. This will commence with the November 16, 2015 beta launch of PetProducts.com. "I believe 'New To The Street,' along with FMW Media Works Corp., will be a huge help for PetProducts.com. This show enables us, along with our digital media, to produce, create and broadcast content for PetProducts.com," says Allen Simon, President and CEO of PetProducts.com. The next taping is scheduled on October 22, 2015 at the "New To The Street's" NYC studio, highlighting Code 3 Associates, Inc., a 501(c) 3 non-profit entity, who is dedicated to providing professional animal disaster response and resources to communities. Code 3 Associates, Inc., also, provides professional training to individuals and agencies involved in animal related law enforcement and emergency response. This show will also feature for the first of their series Soul and Vibe Interactive, Inc. (OTCQB: SOUL), Alliance Bioenergy Plus, Inc. (OTCQB: ALLM) and back for part two of their series, are Seen on Screen TV, Inc. (OTCQB: SONT) and KTE Services. "'New To The Street' is continually exploring both private and public sector companies, offering a show that is diverse in nature and content," says Vince Caruso, President of "New To The Street." "New To The Street" will be implementing ALL their program interviews with Twitter (NYSE: TWTR) in its video marketing beta program. About PetProducts.com PetProducts.com will be an uncomplicated world-wide directory to allow consumers to easily find the best products and services in the pet industry when they need it, on any device. This site is for consumers, manufacturers, retail stores and pet professionals which can be used to market products, services and promotions. Visit www.PetProducts.com. About New To The Street "New To The Street" paves the way to the latest financial issues, offering a blend of business and financial services news reporting and in-depth interviews relating to new products, economic analysis and public company profiles. "New To The Street" is produced by FMW Media Works Corp. a leading provider of business profiles and corporate special programming, and airs as paid-programming on select stations nationwide potentially reaching more than 95 million homes. Visit www.newtothestreet.com.