Analog Devices Partners with MIT’s Solve Program as the Founding Member
Analog Devices, Inc. September 29, 2015 10:00 AM
?
.
View photo
Analog Devices Partners with MIT’s Solve Program as the Founding Member (Graphic: Business Wire)  Multimedia …
NORWOOD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Analog       Devices, Inc. (ADI) today announced it is the primary sponsor and       founding member of “Solve,” a multi-faceted program organized by the       Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) that convenes thought       leaders, researchers, students, and change agents to identify and       implement technology-centered solutions to the most difficult challenges       of our times. Solve is part of HUBweek, a week-long city-wide festival       taking place October 3-10, 2015, that will celebrate ideas and       innovation in the Boston area. Solve kicks off with an inaugural event       scheduled for October 5-8, 2015, at MIT. Solve is an ongoing initiative       with participants reconvening regularly to share insights and move       toward finding solutions.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150929005191/en/
Learn more about Solve: http://www.analog.com/solve
“Solve is an unprecedented undertaking,” said Jason Pontin, MIT       Technology Review editor in chief and publisher. “The launch in October       is much more than a conference, it’s the beginning of a movement       gathering inspiring extraordinary people to work together to solve the       world’s greatest challenges. We’re happy to have the support of       companies like ADI, with the foresight to get involved at the earliest       stage of this journey.”
“Solve brings together a diverse group of businesses and people working       on ground-breaking technologies to solve the toughest problems we’re       facing today, such as providing the infrastructure and economic       opportunity to support a world population of nearly 10 billion by 2050,”       said Vincent Roche, president and CEO, Analog Devices. “ADI has close       ties to the MIT community, and we’re honored and excited to sponsor this       unique initiative. Given Analog Devices’ passion for offering innovative       technologies that solve problems ahead of what’s possible and transform       lives, sponsoring Solve is a perfect fit for us.”
The Solve program will investigate challenges in each of the four       content pillars:  Learn ,  Cure ,  Fuel ,       and  Make ,       using keynote talks, classic debates, collaborative roundtable       discussions, lab tours, technology demonstrations, and workshops.
About Analog Devices
Analog Devices ( ADI ) designs and manufactures semiconductor       products and solutions. We enable our customers to interpret the world       around us by intelligently bridging the physical and digital with       unmatched technologies that sense, measure and connect. Visit http://www.analog.com .
Follow ADI on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/ADI_News
Subscribe to Analog Dialogue, ADI’s monthly technical journal,       at: http://www.analog.com/library/analogDialogue/
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150929005191/en/
