Compare Brokers
Analog Devices “Enabling the Internet of Things” Investor Webinar Now Available
ADI’s 50 year heritage in connecting the physical and digital worlds is helping customers connect from Sensor to Cloud
Analog Devices, Inc. October 14, 2015 8:44 PM
?
Done
NORWOOD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
In this investor webinar, Analog       Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADI ),       a global leader in high-performance semiconductors for signal processing       applications, talks with Tore Svanberg of Stifel to discuss the       opportunities available to ADI in a more intelligent and connected       world. By leveraging its 50 year heritage in sensing, measuring, and       connecting, ADI is using its ‘More than Moore’ and ‘More than Silicon’       advantages to help customers intelligently bridge the physical and       digital worlds.
During the webinar, Martin Cotter, ADI’s Vice President of       Healthcare, IoT, and Consumer, said “This is an exciting time for       ADI. Our core strengths in connecting the real world to the digital       coupled with our superior customer domain and applications knowledge, is       now harnessing the power of these instrumented smart devices to enable       real value creation for our customers.”
David Zinsner, Senior Vice President, Finance, and CFO,       commented, “IoT is not new to us here at ADI and we have seen solid       revenue growth in this area over the past few years. Our strategic       investments, combined with a healthy design pipeline across key markets       such as Industrial and Healthcare, position ADI for sustainable,       diverse, and profitable revenue growth ahead.”
A recording of the October 9th webinar, along with slides and       transcript, may be accessed by visiting the Investor Relations section       of Analog Devices’ website at investor.analog.com .
About Analog Devices
Analog Devices designs and manufactures       semiconductor products and solutions. We enable our customers to       interpret the world around us by intelligently bridging the physical and       digital worlds with unmatched technologies that sense, measure and       connect. Visit http://www.analog.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151014006728/en/
Analog        Devices, Inc
