Crossed Another Milestone - Report on Pfizer
November 6, 2015 8:25 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / November 6, 2015 / Trader's Choice has initiated research coverage on Pfizer Inc. ( PFE ). Select highlights from the internally released reports are being made available to the general public (included below), with access to the entirety of the research available to new members.
Today, membership is open to readers on a complementary basis at the following URL: http://www.traders-choice.com/pdf?s=PFE
Highlights from our PFE Report include:
- Avelumab received Fast Track Designation from the USFDA - On October 07, 2015, Pfizer, one of the world's premier biopharmaceutical companies, announced that the investigational immuno-oncology therapy, Avelumab, has been granted Fast Track designation from the US Food and Drug administration (USFDA). The move will allow Pfizer and its partner, Merck KGaA, to accelerate the development of Avelumab. On September 21, 2015, Avelumab had been granted Orphan Drug designation by the USFDA for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). Pfizer noted that the clinical development program for Avelumab in metastatic MCC includes the Phase II study, JAVELIN Merkel 200, to assess the safety and efficacy of Avelumab in patients who have progressed after at least one prior chemotherapy regimen.
- Management Commentary - Dr. Mace Rothenberg, Senior Vice President of Clinical Development and Medical Affairs and Chief Medical Officer for Pfizer Oncology, remarked, "We look forward to working with our partners at Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, on the development of Avelumab in patients with relapsed and refractory Merkel cell carcinoma. Fast Track designation will enable us to coordinate these efforts more closely with the FDA."
- Understanding the concept of Fast Track designation - Elaborating on the designation, the Company said that Fast Track is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions and address an unmet medical need. Following the granting of the Fast Track designation, early and frequent communication between the USFDA and a Pharma company is encouraged throughout the entire drug development and review process, which helps resolve queries and issues quickly, often leading to earlier drug approval and patient access to important new therapies.
- About Avelumab - Avelumab, also known as MSB0010718C, is an investigational fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of a rare and aggressive type of skin cancer, metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). Pfizer informed that Avelumab is thought to potentially enable the activation of T cells and the adaptive immune system, by inhibiting PD-L1 interactions. By retaining a native Fc-region, Avelumab is thought to engage the innate immune system and induce antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). Merck and Pfizer had announced a strategic alliance in November 2014, to co-develop and co-commercialize Avelumab.
To find out how this influences our rating on Pfizer Inc., read the full report in its entirety here: http://www.traders-choice.com/pdf?s=PFE
--
About Trader's Choice:
Trader's Choice ("TC") produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. TC has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below.
TC has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES:
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer"). The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on sound investment judgment and publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer (collectively referred to as the "Production Team") in any way. The Production Team is compensated on a fixed monthly basis and do not hold any positions of interest in any of the securities mentioned herein. The information in this release has been sourced from a third party data base.
NO WARRANTY
TC, the Author and the Reviewer (collectively referred to as the "Publishers") are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted by the Publishers whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. The Publishers expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, the Publishers do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice.
NOT AN OFFERING
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither TC nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://www.traders-choice.com/ .
RESTRICTIONS
TC is not available to residents of Belarus, Cuba, Canada, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria or Somalia.
CONTACT
