Global Partners Announce Donation of 500 Millionth Dose of Azithromycin, Marking Exceptional Progress to Help Alleviate the Suffering from Trachoma
- Trachoma is the Leading Infectious Cause of Blindness -
- More Than 100 Government, Non-Governmental and Private Sector Partners Driving Progress -
- Continued Efforts Needed to Reach 2020 Global Elimination Goal -
Pfizer Inc. November 16, 2015 4:00 AM
?
(Photo: Business Wire)  Multimedia Gallery URL
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The International       Trachoma Initiative (ITI) , Pfizer       Inc. and International       Coalition for Trachoma Control (ICTC) partners announce Pfizer’s       donation of the 500 millionth dose of Zithromax® (azithromycin) Tablets,       an antibiotic used to treat trachoma in certain countries. The milestone       marks significant achievement in global efforts to help eliminate this       infectious and preventable eye disease that can lead to permanent       blindness as a public health threat by the year 2020.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151116005540/en/
“This milestone highlights what is possible when partners work together       toward a common goal and signifies remarkable achievement in our fight       to eliminate trachoma globally,” said Virginia Sarah, chair,       International Coalition for Trachoma Control, an alliance of       organizations committed to supporting national program efforts in more       than 30 countries to eliminate trachoma using the SAFE strategy, an       approach that includes antibiotic treatment. “Our collective efforts are       helping to reduce the impacts of this ancient, preventable disease on       affected individuals, families and communities.”
Trachoma is an infectious disease, which can develop into a condition in       which eyelids turn in and eyelashes scrape the eyeball, causing great       pain, corneal ulcers and irreversible blindness. There are 232 million       people in 58 countries at risk, with more than 80 percent of the global       burden of the disease concentrated in 14 countries, mostly in Africa.       Trachoma is responsible for the visual impairment of approximately 2.2       million people, 1.2 million of whom are irreversibly blind. It threatens       entire socio-economic infrastructures and as a result, is estimated to       cause USD $3-6 billion in lost productivity per year across affected       countries.
“I am extremely grateful to Pfizer for having donated 500 million doses       of Zithromax in the fight against blinding trachoma to date,” said       former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, founder of The Carter Center, a       pioneer and partner in disease elimination activities. “The Carter       Center is proud to have distributed more than 25 percent of those doses       in the Amhara region of Ethiopia, the most trachoma-endemic area of the       world, along with our partners Lions Clubs International Foundation and       the Federal Ministry of Health. Together, we remain committed to       eliminating blinding trachoma and reducing unnecessary suffering.”
Partners celebrating today are working as part of The World Health       Organization (WHO)-led Alliance       for the Global Elimination of Trachoma by 2020 (GET 2020). This       Alliance is a unique collaboration of more than 100 governments,       non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and private sector partners       implementing a WHO-recommended strategy called “SAFE” that combines:
Surgery to treat the blinding stage of         the disease,
Antibiotics to treat infection,         particularly administration of Zithromax,
Facial cleanliness to help reduce         transmission, and
Environmental improvement, particularly         improving access to water and sanitation.
This integrated strategy ensures that the positive impacts of antibiotic       treatments are sustained through improved hygiene, while surgery ensures       that those who cannot be cured are still treated to alleviate their       discomfort and improve their quality of life. Since the Alliance was       formed in 1998, partners have treated more than one hundred million       people in 33 countries. In 2012, Oman became the first country to       achieve WHO validation of trachoma elimination. In addition, China,       Gambia, Ghana, Iran, Morocco, Myanmar and Vietnam have all reported the       achievement of elimination goals to WHO, and are awaiting outcomes of       the validation process.*
“At Pfizer we believe that access to quality healthcare and the       opportunity to lead healthy lives is an extremely important social       goal,” said Ian Read, chief executive officer, Pfizer. “The power and       value of collaboration between public and private organizations in       achieving that goal cannot be overstated. We are proud to work with our       international partners on this mission to help end trachoma by 2020.”
Expansion of Ethiopian Program Begins Today
The burden of trachoma remains highest in Ethiopia, with 75 million       people at risk, and the Federal Ministry of Health is working with       Alliance partners to significantly expand the number of people in       Ethiopia who are treated. Today, delegations from the U.K. and U.S.       governments, NGOs and Pfizer are gathering in the Wolisso region of       Ethiopia to celebrate the donation of the 500 millionth Zithromax dose       and a significant expansion of the national trachoma elimination program       in the country.
“Trachoma is on track for elimination as a public health problem in many       countries thanks to the dedication of national programs, support of a       coalition of partners and stakeholders and the collaboration of affected       communities,” said Dr. Winnie Mpanju-Shumbusho, WHO assistant       director-general for HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, Malaria and Neglected       Tropical Diseases. “Tackling this leading infectious cause of blindness       through the SAFE strategy yields additional benefits against other       diseases of poverty, and provides an important opportunity to improve       the overall health and livelihood of endemic populations.”
“As we celebrate our great progress, it is critical that we remain       steadfast in our efforts to eliminate trachoma from the lives of       everyone it affects,” said Dr. Paul Emerson, director, International       Trachoma Initiative, the ICTC member organization that manages Pfizer’s       Zithromax donation. “We have the partners, tools and momentum to beat       this debilitating disease, and we are driving toward 2020 with a sense       of urgency and determination. Together we can help ensure that all       people of all nations will never have to endure the horror caused by trachoma.”
Learn more about Alliance for GET 2020 activities and join the online       conversation by using #500MillionDoses.
Additional Partner Comments
Ministry of Health of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
“The expansion of the SAFE strategy across Ethiopia is vital in       alleviating the sufferings of millions of our people and ultimately       eradicating trachoma from our soil,” said His Excellency Dr.       Kesetebirhan Admasu, Minister of Health of the Federal Democratic       Republic of Ethiopia. “The burden of trachoma is too high, but with the       implementation of SAFE strategies, including Pfizer’s donation of       Zithromax, and efficient partnership with international partners, we are       determined to achieve this goal.”
United States Agency for International Development
“Our work with global allies in the fight against blinding trachoma       truly signifies the power of collaboration to achieve global health       wins. USAID has supported the delivery of Zithromax to trachoma-endemic       countries around the world since 2007,” said Ariel Pablos-Méndez,       assistant administrator for Global Health, USAID. “The reach and success       of USAID's efforts in trachoma under the neglected tropical disease       (NTD) Program would not have been possible without the tremendous       commitment from Pfizer. I congratulate all partners involved in the       global trachoma effort for achieving this historic milestone.”
The Fred Hollows Foundation
“Working together with other partners, The Fred Hollows Foundation       believes we can eliminate trachoma by 2020 and we are ramping up our       efforts to tackle the disease in Ethiopia and around the world,” said       Brian Doolan, chief executive officer, The Fred Hollows Foundation.
Lions Clubs International Foundation
“Lions Clubs International Foundation is committed to the elimination of       avoidable blindness and the Lions SightFirst program is proud to be part       of the global effort to eliminate trachoma as a public health problem.       LCIF has supported the work of local Lions, The Carter Center and other       NGO partners in Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Mali, Niger, Nepal,       Nigeria, and other countries for more than 15 years,” said Jim Ervin,       past president, Lions Clubs International. “With the donation of the 500       millionth dose of Zithromax, we mark an important milestone in the fight       against trachoma. We are making incredible progress, but our work is not       done. The Lions and LCIF remains committed to the elimination of       trachoma in Ethiopia and around the world.”
Orbis International
“The magnitude of this incredible milestone highlights the amazing power       of partnerships and just what can be achieved when organizations work       together towards a common goal. By recognizing each other’s strengths we       have created an effective strategy to tackle trachoma. It’s hard to       calculate the total impact of this work; hundreds of millions of lives       have been positively affected by the distribution of Zithromax,” said       Rebecca Cronin, chief executive officer, United Kingdom, Orbis       International. “This action has empowered people to generate an income,       build up economies through enabling a workforce to be free of this       devastating condition and has helped children to gain an education. But       we can do more, and we will continue to do so until this condition is       stamped out across the world.”
The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust
“This is a remarkable milestone. The donation of Zithromax is proving to       be an important catalyst for global progress towards the elimination of       trachoma, an age-old, painful blinding disease,” said Dr. Astrid       Bonfield, CBE, chief executive, The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee       Trust. “We are very grateful for Pfizer’s generous donation of Zithromax       to the programs of The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust to combat       trachoma in Commonwealth countries. The end of this disease and its       devastating consequences will mean so much to the families and       communities affected.”
RTI International
“The ENVISION project works with numerous countries around the world to       reduce and ultimately eliminate trachoma in their communities. This year       we are seeing countries complete all baseline trachoma prevalence       mapping, a feat previously unthinkable,” said Lisa Rotondo, ENVISION       project director, RTI International. “Mass drug administration is       underway and is expanding to new areas where it's needed. At the same       time, hundreds of districts are conducting impact assessments to       determine whether trachoma has been reduced and where they can stop       treatment with Zithromax. It’s an incredibly exciting time – none of       these accomplishments would have been possible without the partners’       continued commitment to the global elimination campaign.”
Sightsavers
“Sightsavers is excited to be part of this huge public and private       sector collaboration which truly demonstrates that by working together       progress can be made in the global fight to eliminate this infectious       and blinding disease. Over the last five years, we have supported the       distribution of more than 37 million doses of Zithromax across Africa,”       said Dr. Caroline Harper, chief executive officer, Sightsavers. “Three       years ago, the U.K. government funded the Global Trachoma Mapping       Project, the largest infectious disease mapping survey ever to be       carried out. The project began in Ethiopia and as the global mapping       nears completion, it seems only fitting that the 500 millionth dose is       donated to Ethiopia, a country which has been a shining light in global       efforts to eliminate trachoma.”
About The Alliance for GET 2020
The WHO-led Alliance for Global Elimination of Trachoma by the year 2020       (GET 2020) is a network of partners who are working across the globe to       implement the SAFE strategy in areas most in need. Commitments and       funding for these activities are provided by government agencies,       including United States Agency for International Development (USAID),       United Kingdom Department for International Development (DfID), Pfizer       Inc. and members of ICTC. Alliance members celebrating today include The       Carter Center, The Fred Hollows Foundation, Helen Keller International,       International Trachoma Initiative, Light for the World, Lions Clubs       International Foundation, Orbis International, The Queen Elizabeth       Diamond Jubilee Trust, RTI International, Sightsavers, and many others.
About the International Coalition for Trachoma Control
The International Coalition for Trachoma Control (ICTC) is a coalition       of NGOs, donors, research/academic institutions and private sector       organizations supporting efforts to eliminate trachoma by 2020. ICTC was       formed in 2004 to support the WHO-led Alliance for the Global       Elimination of Trachoma by the year 2020 (GET 2020) and advocate for the       implementation of the WHO-endorsed SAFE strategy. For more information,       please visit www.TrachomaCoalition.org .
About The International Trachoma Initiative
The International Trachoma Initiative (ITI) was founded in 1998 in       response to the WHO call to achieve Global Elimination of Trachoma by       the year 2020 (GET 2020). ITI’s founding partners, Pfizer Inc. and the       Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, saw the need for an international NGO       dedicated solely to the elimination of trachoma. The ITI is currently       administered by the Task Force for Global Health, an independent not for       profit. To achieve that goal, ITI collaborates with governmental and NGO       agencies at the local, national and international levels to implement       the WHO-recommended SAFE strategy for trachoma control. For more       information, please visit www.Trachoma.org .
Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world®
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of health care products. Our global       portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer health care products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. To learn more, please visit us at www.pfizer.com .
*Not all countries listed receive Zithromax through the International       Trachoma Initiative
About ZITHROMAX IN THE UNITED STATES
INDICATIONS
ZITHROMAX is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to       moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria:
Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults
Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults
Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults
Urethritis and cervicitis in adults
Genital ulcer disease in men
Acute otitis media in pediatric patients
Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients
Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients
ZITHROMAX is not approved in the United States and EU to treat       trachoma.
IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION
ZITHROMAX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity         to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug and in         patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction         associated with prior use of azithromycin.
Serious (including fatal) allergic and skin reactions including         Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Drug         Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) have been         reported in patients on azithromycin therapy. If an allergic reaction         occurs, the drug should be discontinued and appropriate therapy should         be instituted.
Hepatotoxicity: Severe, and sometimes fatal, hepatotoxicity has been         reported, Discontinue ZITHROMAX immediately if signs and symptoms of         hepatitis occur.
Prolongation of QT interval and cases of torsades de pointes have been         reported. This risk which can be fatal should be considered in         patients with certain cardiovascular disorders including known QT         prolongation or history torsades de pointes, those with proarrhythmic         conditions, and with other drugs that prolong the QT interval.
Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea: Evaluate patients if         diarrhea occurs.
ZITHROMAX may exacerbate muscle weakness in persons with myasthenia         gravis.
The most common adverse reactions are diarrhea (5 to 14%), nausea (3         to 18%), abdominal pain (3 to 7%), or vomiting (2 to 7%).
Click       here for full Prescribing Information.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151116005540/en/
