Compare Brokers
Merck and Pfizer Announce Initiation of Phase III First-Line Trial of Avelumab in Patients with Recurrent or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Trial marks second Phase III study of avelumab in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) initiated by Merck and Pfizer in just over six months
Primary endpoint is progression-free survival in previously untreated patients with recurrent or Stage IV programmed death-ligand 1 positive (PD-L1+) NSCLC
Pfizer November 4, 2015 8:00 AM
?
DARMSTADT, Germany & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Not intended for UK-based media
Merck and Pfizer today announced the initiation of an international       Phase III study of the investigational cancer immunotherapy avelumab* in       a treatment naïve advanced NSCLC setting. The study, JAVELIN Lung 100,       is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of avelumab compared with       platinum-based doublet chemotherapy, in patients with late-stage NSCLC       who have not previously received any treatment for their systemic lung       cancer. Avelumab (previously known as MSB0010718C) is an investigational       fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody that potentially uses       the body’s own immune system to fight cancer.
The Phase III study is an open-label, multicenter, randomized clinical       trial in which patients with recurrent or Stage IV PD-L1+ NSCLC will       receive either avelumab or the investigator’s choice of platinum-based       chemotherapy, depending on the patient’s histology (either squamous or       non-squamous), as first-line treatment. Patients will be pre-screened       for PD-L1+ status using an immunohistochemistry-based companion       diagnostic test.
The study expects to enroll approximately 420 patients across more than       240 sites in Africa, America (North and South), Asia and Europe.       Clinical trials in North America on behalf of Merck will be conducted by       EMD Serono, the company’s US and Canadian biopharma business.
“Through this Phase III trial, we hope to gain a better understanding of       avelumab as a potential first-line treatment for non-small cell lung       cancer – a prevalent and devastating disease,” said Dr. Luciano       Rossetti, Head of Global Research & Development at Merck’s biopharma       business. “We are working to help patients with this challenging cancer       and will continue to develop our NSCLC program by evaluating avelumab as       a potential monotherapy and in combination with our extensive portfolios       of approved and investigational oncology therapies.”
The primary endpoint of the study is progression-free survival in       patients with PD-L1+ tumors. Secondary endpoints include       progression-free survival in patients with strongly PD-L1 positive       (PD-L1++) tumors, overall survival, objective response rate, quality of       life, tolerability and safety in patients treated with avelumab versus       investigator-choice chemotherapy. This is the second randomized Phase       III study of avelumab in NSCLC initiated in just over six months; the       first study was initiated in April 2015 and is evaluating avelumab in       patients whose disease has progressed after receiving a       platinum-containing doublet chemotherapy compared with docetaxel.
“There is great promise for the use of immunotherapy in the treatment of       non-small cell lung cancer and this new trial underscores our continuing       commitment to investigating potential immune-based treatment options for       this devastating disease,” said Dr. Mace Rothenberg, Senior Vice       President of Clinical Development and Medical Affairs and Chief Medical       Officer for Pfizer Oncology. “The clinical development program for       avelumab continues to accelerate, and the initiation of this Phase III       study represents another important achievement in 2015 for the alliance       between Merck and Pfizer.”
The clinical development program for avelumab now includes more than       1,400 patients who have been treated across more than 15 tumor types,       including breast cancer, gastric/gastro-esophageal (GEJ) cancers, head       and neck cancer, Merkel cell carcinoma, melanoma, NSCLC, ovarian cancer,       renal cell carcinoma and urothelial (e.g., bladder) cancer.
*Avelumab is the proposed International Non-proprietary Name for the       anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody (MSB0010718C). Avelumab is under clinical       investigation and has not been proven to be safe and effective. There is       no guarantee any product will be approved in the sought-after indication       by any health authority worldwide.
References
American Cancer Society (2015) Global Facts & Figures Third Edition.         Available from: www.cancer.org/acs/groups/content/@research/documents/document/acspc-044738.pdf .         Accessed October 2015.
American Cancer Society (2015) Lung Cancer (Non-Small Cell) [Fact         sheet]. Available from: www.cancer.org/acs/groups/cid/documents/webcontent/003115-pdf .         Accessed October 2015.
Mayo Clinic (2015) Cancer survival rate: what it means for your         prognosis: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/cancer/in-depth/cancer/art-20044517 .         Accessed October 2015.
About Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Globally, lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer-related deaths       in men and the second most common in women,1 responsible for       more deaths than colon, breast and prostate cancer combined2.       NSCLC is the most common type of lung cancer, accounting for 85 to 90       percent of all lung cancers2. The five-year survival rate for       people diagnosed with late-stage lung cancer that has spread       (metastasized) to other areas of the body is 4 percent.3
About Avelumab
Avelumab (also known as MSB0010718C) is an investigational fully human       anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody. By inhibiting PD-L1 interactions,       avelumab is thought to enable the activation of T-cells and the adaptive       immune system. By retaining a native Fc-region, avelumab is thought to       engage the innate immune system and induce antibody-dependent       cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). In November 2014, Merck and Pfizer       announced a strategic alliance to co-develop and co-commercialize       avelumab.
About Merck-Pfizer Alliance
Immuno-oncology is a top priority for Merck and Pfizer. The global       strategic alliance between Merck and Pfizer enables the companies to       benefit from each other’s strengths and capabilities and further explore       the therapeutic potential of avelumab, an investigational anti-PD-L1       antibody initially discovered and developed by Merck. The       immuno-oncology alliance will jointly develop and commercialize avelumab       and advance Pfizer’s PD-1 antibody. The alliance will collaborate on up       to 20 high priority immuno-oncology clinical development programs,       including combination trials, many of which are expected to commence in       2015.
Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world®
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio       includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer healthcare products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. To learn more, please visit us at www.pfizer.com .
About Merck
Merck is a leading science and technology company in healthcare, life       science and performance materials. Around 40,000 employees work to       further develop technologies that improve and enhance life – from       biopharmaceutical therapies to treat cancer or multiple sclerosis,       cutting-edge systems for scientific research and production, to liquid       crystals for smartphones and LCD televisions. In 2014, Merck generated       sales of € 11.3 billion in 66 countries.
Founded in 1668, Merck is the world's oldest pharmaceutical and chemical       company. The founding family remains the majority owner of the publicly       listed corporate group. Merck, Darmstadt, Germany holds the global       rights to the Merck name and brand. The only exceptions are the United       States and Canada, where the company operates as EMD Serono, EMD       Millipore and EMD Performance Materials.
All Merck Press Releases are distributed by e-mail at the same time they       become available on the Merck Website. Please go to www.merckgroup.com/subscribe to register online, change your selection or discontinue this service.
Pfizer Disclosure Notice
The information contained in this release is as of November 4, 2015.       Pfizer assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements       contained in this release as the result of new information or future       events or developments.
This release contains forward-looking information about avelumab       (MSB0010718C), including a potential indication for avelumab for the       treatment of patients with late-stage NSCLC who have not previously       received any treatment for their systemic lung cancer, Pfizer’s and       Merck’s immuno-oncology alliance involving anti-PD-L1 and anti-PD-1       therapies, and clinical development plans, including their potential       benefits, that involves substantial risks and uncertainties that could       cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or       implied by such statements. Risks and uncertainties include, among other       things, the uncertainties inherent in research and development,       including the ability to meet anticipated clinical study commencement       and completion dates as well as the possibility of unfavorable study       results; risks associated with interim data, including the risk that the       final results of the Phase I study for avelumab and/or additional       clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than)       the interim data results and may not support further clinical       development; the risk that clinical trial data are subject to differing       interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support       the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate, regulatory       authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or       may deny approval altogether; whether and when drug applications may be       filed in any jurisdictions for any potential indications for avelumab,       combination therapies or other product candidates; whether and when any       such applications may be approved by regulatory authorities, which will       depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the       benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and       safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities       regarding labeling and other matters that could affect the availability       or commercial potential of avelumab, combination therapies or other       product candidates; and competitive developments.
A further description of risks and uncertainties can be found in       Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December       31, 2014, and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the       sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking       Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, as well as in       its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed with the SEC       and available at www.sec.gov and www.pfizer.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151104005146/en/
Health Care Industry
