Compare Brokers
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, and Pfizer Receive FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designation for Avelumab in Metastatic Merkel Cell Carcinoma
Breakthrough Therapy designation highlights the potential of avelumab* as a new immunotherapy for patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC)
Metastatic MCC is a devastating disease and if approved, avelumab could potentially become the first immunotherapy to treat metastatic MCC
Pfizer Inc. November 18, 2015 7:00 AM
?
Done
DARMSTADT, Germany & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, and Pfizer today announced that the US       Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted avelumab*, an       investigational fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody,       Breakthrough Therapy designation for the treatment of patients with       metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) who have progressed after at       least one previous chemotherapy regimen. Breakthrough Therapy       designation is designed to accelerate the development and review of       medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition, and       preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the therapy may demonstrate       a substantial improvement over current available therapies. MCC is a       rare and aggressive type of skin cancer.1,2 Each year, there       are approximately 1,500 new cases of MCC diagnosed in the US.3 There is currently no therapy approved specifically for the treatment of       metastatic MCC.4
The Breakthrough Therapy designation is based on the preliminary       evaluation of clinical data from the global Phase II study, JAVELIN       Merkel 200, which is assessing the safety and efficacy of avelumab in       patients with metastatic MCC whose disease has progressed after at least       one prior chemotherapy regimen. Results from this Phase II study are       planned for presentation at upcoming scientific congresses in 2016. The       designation represents a significant milestone and has the potential to       speed the development of avelumab for metastatic MCC patients.
JAVELIN Merkel 200 is a multicenter, single-arm, open-label Phase II       study with a primary objective of overall response rate. Secondary       endpoints include duration of response, progression-free survival,       overall survival and safety. The study, which enrolled 88 patients, is       being conducted in sites across Asia Pacific, Australia, Europe and       North America.
“Metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma is a devastating disease with limited       treatment options currently available for patients,” said Dr. Luciano       Rossetti, Global Head of Research & Development of the biopharma       business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. “With this Breakthrough       Therapy designation, we are one step closer to our goal of making a       significant difference to patients living with difficult-to-treat       cancers, such as metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, by researching and       developing potential new treatment options.”
“In less than two months, the alliance between Merck KGaA, Darmstadt,       Germany, and Pfizer has achieved its third regulatory milestone for       avelumab, including Orphan Drug designation and Fast Track designation       granted in September and October,” said Dr. Mace Rothenberg, Senior Vice       President of Clinical Development and Medical Affairs and Chief Medical       Officer for Pfizer Oncology. “We are very pleased with the progress of       the JAVELIN clinical development program and we are looking forward to       presenting additional data on the potential of this investigational       compound in Merkel cell carcinoma and other tumor types in 2016.”
The clinical development program for avelumab now includes more than       1,400 patients who have been treated across more than 15 tumor types,       including breast cancer, gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers,       head and neck cancer, MCC, mesothelioma, melanoma, non-small cell lung       cancer, ovarian cancer, renal cell carcinoma and urothelial (e.g.,       bladder) cancer.
About the FDA Designations
Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development       and review of drugs which are intended to treat a serious condition, and       preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate       substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically       significant endpoint(s). The FDA also recently granted avelumab Fast       Track and Orphan Drug designations for the treatment of metastatic MCC.       The FDA’s granting of the Breakthrough Therapy, Fast Track and Orphan       Drug designations for metastatic MCC does not alter the standard       regulatory requirement to establish the safety and effectiveness of a       drug through adequate and well-controlled studies to support approval.
*Avelumab is the proposed International Nonproprietary Name for the       anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody (MSB0010718C). Avelumab is under clinical       investigation and has not been proven to be safe and effective. There is       no guarantee any product will be approved in the sought-after indication       by any health authority worldwide.
References
1. Hughes MP et al. Merkel cell carcinoma: epidemiology, target, and       therapy. Curr Dermatol Rep 2014 Jan 22(3): 46–53
2. Kaae J et al. Merkel cell carcinoma: incidence, mortality, and risk       of other cancers. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010 102(11): 793–801
3. Lemos BD et al. Pathologic nodal evaluation improves prognostic       accuracy in Merkel cell carcinoma: analysis of 5823 cases as the basis       of the first consensus staging system. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010 63(5):       751–61
4. Miller NJ et al. Emerging and mechanism-based therapies for recurrent       or metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. Curr Treat Options Oncol 2013       14(2): 249–63
About Merkel Cell Carcinoma (MCC)
MCC is a rare and aggressive disease in which cancer cells form in the       top layer of the skin, close to nerve endings. MCC, which is also known       as neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin or trabecular cancer, often       starts in those areas of skin that are most often exposed to the sun,       including the head and neck, arms, legs, and trunk. Risk factors for MCC       include sun exposure and having a weak immune system (i.e., solid organ       transplant recipients, people with HIV/AIDS and people with other       cancers, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia, are at higher risk).       Caucasian males over age 50 are at increased risk. MCC tends to       metastasize at an early stage, spreading initially to nearby lymph       nodes, and then potentially to more distant areas in the body, including       other lymph nodes or areas of skin, lungs, brain, bones or other organs.       Current treatment options for MCC include surgery, radiation and       chemotherapy. Treatment for metastatic or Stage IV MCC is generally       palliative.
About Avelumab
Avelumab (also known as MSB0010718C) is an investigational fully human       anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody. By inhibiting PD-L1 interactions,       avelumab is thought to potentially enable the activation of T-cells and       the adaptive immune system. By retaining a native Fc-region, avelumab is       thought to engage the innate immune system and induce antibody-dependent       cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). In November 2014, Merck KGaA,       Darmstadt, Germany, and Pfizer announced a strategic alliance to       co-develop and co-commercialize avelumab.
Alliance between Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, and Pfizer Inc., New       York, US
Immuno-oncology is a top priority for Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany,       and Pfizer Inc. The global strategic alliance between Merck KGaA,       Darmstadt, Germany, and Pfizer Inc., New York, US, enables the companies       to benefit from each other’s strengths and capabilities and further       explore the therapeutic potential of avelumab, an investigational       anti-PD-L1 antibody initially discovered and developed by Merck KGaA,       Darmstadt, Germany. The immuno-oncology alliance will jointly develop       and commercialize avelumab and advance Pfizer’s PD-1 antibody. The       companies will collaborate on up to 20 high-priority immuno-oncology       clinical development programs, including combination trials, many of       which are expected to commence in 2015.
Pfizer Inc.; Working together for a healthier world®
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio       includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer healthcare products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. To learn more, please visit us at www.pfizer.com .
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, is a leading science and technology       company in healthcare, life science and performance materials. Around       40,000 employees work to further develop technologies that improve and       enhance life – from biopharmaceutical therapies to treat cancer or       multiple sclerosis, cutting-edge systems for scientific research and       production, to liquid crystals for smartphones and LCD televisions. In       2014, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, generated sales of € 11.3 billion       in 66 countries.
Founded in 1668, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, is the world's oldest       pharmaceutical and chemical company. The founding family remains the       majority owner of the publicly listed corporate group. Merck KGaA,       Darmstadt, Germany, holds the global rights to the Merck KGaA,       Darmstadt, Germany, name and brand. The only exceptions are the United       States and Canada, where the company operates as EMD Serono, EMD       Millipore and EMD Performance Materials.
All Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, press releases are distributed by       e-mail at the same time they become available on the EMD Group Website.       In case you are a resident of the USA or Canada please go to www.emdgroup.com/subscribe to register again for your online subscription of this service as our       newly introduced geo-targeting requires new links in the email. You may       later change your selection or discontinue this service.
Pfizer Disclosure Notice
The information contained in this release is as of November 18, 2015.       Pfizer assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements       contained in this release as the result of new information or future       events or developments.
This release contains forward-looking information about avelumab       (MSB0010718C), including a potential indication for the treatment of       metastatic MCC, Pfizer’s and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany’s       immuno-oncology alliance involving anti-PD-L1 and anti-PD-1 therapies       and clinical development plans, including their potential benefits, that       involves substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual       results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such       statements. Risks and uncertainties include, among other things, the       uncertainties inherent in research and development, including the       ability to meet anticipated clinical study commencement and completion       dates as well as the possibility of unfavorable study results; risks       associated with interim data, including the risk that the final results       of the Phase I study for avelumab and/or additional clinical trials may       be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data       results and may not support further clinical development; the risk that       clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even       when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or       effectiveness of a product candidate, regulatory authorities may not       share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval       altogether; whether and when drug applications may be filed in any       jurisdictions for any potential indications for avelumab, combination       therapies or other product candidates; whether and when any such       applications may be approved by regulatory authorities, which will       depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the       benefit–risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and       safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities       regarding labeling and other matters that could affect the availability       or commercial potential of avelumab, combination therapies or other       product candidates; and competitive developments.
A further description of risks and uncertainties can be found in       Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December       31, 2014, and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the       sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking       Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, as well as in       its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed with the SEC       and available at www.sec.gov and www.pfizer.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151118005702/en/
Health Care Industry
