Pfizer Reports Top-Line Results from a Phase 3 Study of LYRICA® (pregabalin) Capsules CV in Adults with Post-Traumatic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain
Pfizer Inc. 10 hours ago
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pfizer Inc. ( PFE ) announced today top-line results of a Phase 3       study evaluating the efficacy and safety of LYRICA® (pregabalin) Capsules CV in adults with chronic post-traumatic       peripheral neuropathic pain. The study did not meet its primary efficacy       endpoint.
The study was conducted as a 15-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled,       parallel group study with a primary objective to evaluate the efficacy       of pregabalin in the treatment of chronic post-traumatic peripheral       neuropathic pain. The primary efficacy endpoint was mean pain reduction       from baseline compared with placebo based on pain scores from patients’       daily pain diaries. The safety profile observed in this study was       consistent with that known for pregabalin. The most common adverse       events with pregabalin in this study were dizziness, somnolence, nausea       and fatigue.
There is currently no treatment approved by the U.S. Food and Drug       Administration for post-traumatic neuropathic pain.
Complete study results will be shared on clinicaltrials.gov.
About LYRICA®
LYRICA® is currently approved for various indications in more       than 130 countries and regions globally.
LYRICA is approved for five indications in the U.S., of which four are       in the therapeutic area of pain. These indications include neuropathic       pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy, post-herpetic       neuralgia (pain after shingles), neuropathic pain associated with spinal       cord injury, fibromyalgia and partial onset seizures in adults with       epilepsy who take one or more drugs for seizures.
Please click here for the full prescribing information and Medication Guide for LYRICA.
Important Safety Information
LYRICA is not for everyone. LYRICA may cause serious, even life       threatening, allergic reactions. Patient should stop taking LYRICA and       call their doctor right away if they have any signs of a serious       allergic reaction. Some signs are swelling of face, mouth, lips, gums,       tongue, throat or neck, trouble breathing, rash, hives or blisters.
Drugs used to treat seizures increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or       behavior. LYRICA may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small       number of people, about 1 in 500. Patients, family members or caregivers       should call the doctor right away if they notice suicidal thoughts or       actions, thoughts of self harm, or any unusual changes in mood or       behavior. These changes may include new or worsening depression,       anxiety, restlessness, trouble sleeping, panic attacks, anger,       irritability, agitation, aggression, dangerous impulses or violence, or       extreme increases in activity or talking. If patients have suicidal       thoughts or actions, they should not stop LYRICA without first talking       to their doctor.
LYRICA may cause swelling of hands, legs and feet, which can be serious       for people with heart problems. LYRICA may cause dizziness and       sleepiness. Patients should not drive or work with machines until they       know how LYRICA affects them. Patients should tell their doctor right       away about muscle pain or problems along with feeling sick and feverish,       or any changes in eyesight including blurry vision or if they have any       kidney problems or get dialysis.
Some of the most common side effects of LYRICA are dizziness, blurry       vision, weight gain, sleepiness, trouble concentrating, swelling of       hands and feet, dry mouth, and feeling “high”. Patients with diabetes       should tell their doctor about any skin sores.
Patients may have a higher chance for swelling and hives if they are       also taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and should       tell their doctor if they are taking these medications. Patients may       have a higher chance of swelling of hands or feet or gaining weight if       they are also taking certain diabetes medicines. Patients should not       drink alcohol while on LYRICA. They may have a higher chance for       dizziness and sleepiness if they take LYRICA with alcohol, narcotic pain       medicines, or medicines for anxiety.
Before starting LYRICA, patients should tell their doctor if they are       planning to father a child, or are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or       are breast-feeding. If patients have had a drug or alcohol problem, they       may be more likely to misuse LYRICA.
In studies, a specific type of blood vessel tumor was seen in mice, but       not in rats. The meaning of these findings in humans is not known.
Patients should not stop taking LYRICA without talking to their doctor.       If they stop suddenly they may have headaches, nausea, diarrhea, trouble       sleeping, increased sweating, or may feel anxious. Patients with       epilepsy may have seizures more often.
Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world®
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of health care products. Our global       portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer health care products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. To learn more, please visit us at www.pfizer.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151125005311/en/
Health Care Industry
