Pfizer Receives European Approval to Expand Use of XALKORI® (crizotinib) to First-Line Treatment of Adults with ALK-Positive Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Pfizer Inc. 16 hours ago
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pfizer Inc. ( PFE ) today announced that the European Commission has       approved a label update to expand use of XALKORI® (crizotinib) to       first-line treatment of adults with anaplastic lymphoma kinase       (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The Summary       of Product Characteristics also has been updated to include efficacy       data from PROFILE 1014, which demonstrated that XALKORI significantly       prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) in previously untreated       patients with ALK-positive advanced nonsquamous NSCLC when compared to       standard platinum-based chemotherapy regimens.1
“The European Commission’s decision to approve XALKORI in the first-line       setting reinforces XALKORI’s role as a standard of care for patients       with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC,” said Andreas Penk, MD, regional       president Oncology Europe, Africa and the Middle East, Head Greater       China and Asia-Pacific Oncology Regions. “This milestone further       underscores the importance of early and routine biomarker testing in       patients with advanced NSCLC so that these patients can be identified       and treated appropriately.”
The European Commission’s approval of XALKORI follows the positive       opinion issued by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use       (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency, and is supported by the results       from PROFILE 1014, a Phase 3 global, randomized, open-label, two-arm       study evaluating the efficacy and safety of XALKORI in patients       previously untreated for ALK-positive advanced nonsquamous NSCLC.1
XALKORI was the first ALK inhibitor approved by regulatory authorities       in the United States (U.S.), EU, China and Japan, and it is now approved       in more than 85 countries. XALKORI is widely recognized as a standard of       care for patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC. To date, more than       20,000 patients have been treated with XALKORI worldwide.2
XALKORI is an oral, ALK inhibitor.3 By inhibiting the ALK       fusion protein, XALKORI blocks signaling in a number of cell pathways       that are believed to be critical for the growth and survival of tumor       cells, which may lead to growth inhibition or regression of tumors.4,5
About Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Worldwide, lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in both men       and women.6 NSCLC accounts for about 85 percent of lung       cancer cases and remains difficult to treat, particularly in the       metastatic setting.7 Approximately 57 percent of NSCLC       patients are diagnosed late with metastatic, or advanced, disease where       the five-year survival rate is only 5 percent.8
XALKORI® (crizotinib) Indication and       Important Safety Information (as per U.S. Prescribing Information)
XALKORI is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients       with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors are       anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive as detected by an FDA-approved       test.
Hepatotoxicity: Drug-induced hepatotoxicity with fatal outcome       occurred in 0.1% of patients treated with XALKORI across clinical trials       (n=1669). Transaminase elevations generally occurred within the first 2       months. Monitor with liver function tests including ALT and total       bilirubin every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of treatment, then       once a month and as clinically indicated, with more frequent repeat       testing for increased liver transaminases, alkaline phosphatase, or       total bilirubin in patients who develop transaminase elevations.       Permanently discontinue for ALT/AST elevation >3 times ULN with       concurrent total bilirubin elevation >1.5 times ULN (in the absence of       cholestasis or hemolysis); otherwise, temporarily suspend and       dose-reduce XALKORI as indicated.
Interstitial Lung Disease (Pneumonitis): Severe,       life-threatening, or fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis       can occur. Across clinical trials (n=1669), 2.9% of XALKORI-treated       patients had any grade ILD, 1.1% had Grade 3/4, and 0.5% had fatal ILD.       These cases generally occurred within 3 months after initiation of       treatment. Monitor for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis.       Exclude other potential causes and permanently discontinue XALKORI in       patients with drug-related ILD/pneumonitis.
QT Interval Prolongation: QTc prolongation can occur. Across       clinical trials (n=1560), 2.1% of patients had QTcF (corrected QT by the       Fridericia method) ?500 ms and 5.0% had an increase from baseline QTcF       ?60 ms by automated machine-read evaluation of ECG. Avoid use in       patients with congenital long QT syndrome. Consider periodic monitoring       with ECGs and electrolytes in patients with congestive heart failure,       bradyarrhythmias, electrolyte abnormalities, or who are taking       medications that prolong the QT interval. Permanently discontinue       XALKORI in patients who develop QTc >500 ms or ?60 ms change from       baseline with Torsade de pointes, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia,       or signs/symptoms of serious arrhythmia. Withhold XALKORI in patients       who develop QTc >500 ms on at least 2 separate ECGs until recovery to a       QTc ?480 ms, then resume at a reduced dose.
Bradycardia: Symptomatic bradycardia can occur. Across clinical       trials, bradycardia occurred in 12.3% of patients treated with XALKORI       (N=1669). Avoid use in combination with other agents known to cause       bradycardia. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly. In cases       of symptomatic bradycardia that is not life-threatening, hold XALKORI       until recovery to asymptomatic bradycardia or to a heart rate of ?60       bpm, re-evaluate the use of concomitant medications, and adjust the dose       of XALKORI. Permanently discontinue for life-threatening bradycardia due       to XALKORI; however, if associated with concomitant medications known to       cause bradycardia or hypotension, hold XALKORI until recovery to       asymptomatic bradycardia or to a heart rate of ?60 bpm. If concomitant       medications can be adjusted or discontinued, restart XALKORI at 250 mg       once daily with frequent monitoring.
Severe Visual Loss: Across clinical trials, the incidence of       Grade 4 visual field defect with vision loss was 0.2% (N=1669).       Discontinue XALKORI in patients with new onset of severe visual loss       (best corrected vision less than 20/200 in one or both eyes). Perform an       ophthalmological evaluation. There is insufficient information to       characterize the risks of resumption of XALKORI in patients with a       severe visual loss; a decision to resume should consider the potential       benefits to the patient.
Vision Disorders: Most commonly visual impairment, photopsia,       blurred vision or vitreous floaters, occurred in 62% of 1669 patients.       The majority (95%) of these patients had Grade 1 visual adverse       reactions. 0.8% of patients had Grade 3 and 0.2% had Grade 4 visual       impairment. The majority of patients on the XALKORI arms in Studies 1       and 2 (>50%) reported visual disturbances which occurred at a frequency       of 4-7 days each week, lasted up to 1 minute, and had mild or no impact       on daily activities.
Embryofetal Toxicity: XALKORI can cause fetal harm when       administered to a pregnant woman. Advise of the potential risk to the       fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential and males with female       partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during       treatment and for at least 45 days (females) or 90 days (males)       respectively, following the final dose of XALKORI.
Adverse Reactions: Safety was evaluated in a phase 3 study in       previously untreated patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC       randomized to XALKORI (n=171) or chemotherapy (n=169). Serious adverse       events were reported in 34% of patients treated with XALKORI, the most       frequent were dyspnea (4.1%) and pulmonary embolism (2.9%). Fatal       adverse events in XALKORI-treated patients occurred in 2.3% of patients,       consisting of septic shock, acute respiratory failure, and diabetic       ketoacidosis. Common adverse reactions (all grades) occurring in ?25%       and more commonly (?5%) in patients treated with XALKORI vs chemotherapy       were vision disorder (71% vs 10%), diarrhea (61% vs 13%), edema (49% vs       12%), vomiting (46% vs 36%), constipation (43% vs 30%), upper       respiratory infection (32% vs 12%), dysgeusia (26% vs 5%), and abdominal       pain (26% vs 12%). Grade 3/4 reactions occurring at a ?2% higher       incidence with XALKORI vs chemotherapy were QT prolongation (2% vs 0%),       and constipation (2% vs 0%). In patients treated with XALKORI vs       chemotherapy, the following occurred: elevation of ALT (any grade [79%       vs 33%] or Grade 3/4 [15% vs 2%]); elevation of AST (any grade [66% vs       28%] or Grade 3/4 [8% vs 1%]); neutropenia (any grade [52% vs 59%] or       Grade 3/4 [11% vs 16%]); lymphopenia (any grade [48% vs 53%] or Grade       3/4 [7% vs 13%]); hypophosphatemia (any grade [32% vs 21%] or Grade 3/4       [10% vs 6%]). In patients treated with XALKORI vs chemotherapy, renal       cysts occurred (5% vs 1%). Nausea (56%) decreased appetite (30%),       fatigue (29%), and neuropathy (21%) also occurred in patients taking       XALKORI.
Drug Interactions: Exercise caution with concomitant use of       moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice which       may increase plasma concentrations of crizotinib. Avoid concomitant use       of strong CYP3A inducers and inhibitors. Avoid concomitant use of CYP3A       substrates with narrow therapeutic range in patients taking XALKORI. If       concomitant use of CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range is       required in patients taking XALKORI, dose reductions of the CYP3A       substrates may be required due to adverse reactions.
Lactation: Because of the potential for adverse reactions in       breastfed infants, advise females not to breast feed during treatment       with XALKORI and for 45 days after the final dose.
Hepatic Impairment: XALKORI has not been studied in patients with       hepatic impairment. As crizotinib is extensively metabolized in the       liver, hepatic impairment is likely to increase plasma crizotinib       concentrations. Use caution in patients with hepatic impairment.
Renal Impairment: Administer XALKORI at a starting dose of 250 mg       taken orally once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) not requiring dialysis. No starting dose adjustment is       needed for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment.
For more information and full prescribing information visit www.XALKORI.com .
About Pfizer Oncology
Pfizer Oncology is committed to the discovery, investigation and       development of innovative treatment options to improve the outlook for       cancer patients worldwide. Our strong pipeline of biologics and small       molecules, one of the most robust in the industry, is studied with       precise focus on identifying and translating the best scientific       breakthroughs into clinical application for patients across a wide range       of cancers. By working collaboratively with academic institutions,       individual researchers, cooperative research groups, governments, and       licensing partners, Pfizer Oncology strives to cure or control cancer       with breakthrough medicines, to deliver the right drug for each patient       at the right time. For more information, please visit www.pfizer.com .
Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world®
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of health care products. Our global       portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer health care products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. For more information, please visit us at www.pfizer.com . In addition, to learn more, follow us on Twitter at @Pfizer and @Pfizer_News ,       and like us on Facebook at Facebook.com/Pfizer .
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information contained in this release is as of       November 25, 2015. Pfizer assumes no obligation to update       forward-looking statements contained in this release as the result of       new information or future events or developments.
This release contains forward-looking information about XALKORI,       including its potential benefits, that involves substantial risks and       uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from       those expressed or implied by such statements. Risks and uncertainties       include, among other things, uncertainties regarding the commercial       success of XALKORI; the uncertainties inherent in research and       development, including the ability to meet anticipated clinical trial       commencement and completion dates and regulatory submission dates, as       well as the possibility of unfavorable clinical trial results, including       unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing       clinical data; whether and when drug applications or supplemental drug       applications may be filed with other jurisdictions for XALKORI for the       first-line treatment of adults with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC; whether       and when any other applications may be approved by other regulatory       authorities, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory       authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the       efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory       authorities regarding labeling and other matters that could affect the       availability or commercial potential of XALKORI; and competitive       developments.
A further description of risks and uncertainties can be found in       Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December       31, 2014 and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the       sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking       Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, as well as in       its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed with the SEC       and available at  www.sec.gov  and  www.pfizer.com .
1 Solomon B, Mok T, Dong-Wan K, et al. First-Line Crizotinib       versus Chemotherapy in ALK-Positive Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med 2014;       371:2167-2177. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1408440.
2 Pfizer data on file.
3 Kwak E, Bang Y, Camidge R et al. Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase       Inhibition in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med.       2010;363:1693-1703.
4 Chiarle R, Voena C, Ambrogio C et al. The anaplastic       lymphoma kinase in the pathogenesis of cancer. Nat Rev Cancer.       2008;8(1):11-23.
5 Zou HY, Li Q, Lee JH, et al. An orally available       small-molecule inhibitor of c-MET, PF-2341066, exhibits cytoreductive       antitumor efficacy through antiproliferative and antiangiogenic       mechanisms. Cancer Res. 2007;67:4408-4417.
6 The International Agency for Research on Cancer, the World       Health Organization, GLOBOCAN 2012, Available at: http://globocan.iarc.fr/Pages/fact_sheets_cancer.aspx .       Accessed October 15, 2015.
7 Reade CA, Ganti AK. EGFR targeted therapy in non-small cell       lung cancer: potential role of cetuximab. Biologics. 2009; 3: 215 224.
8 National Cancer Institute. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and       End Results Program. Seer Stat Fact Sheets: Lung and Bronchus Cancer. http://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/lungb.html .       Accessed October 15, 2015.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151124006345/en/
Health Care Industry
