Pfizer and Allergan to Combine
Creates a new global biopharmaceutical leader with best-in-class innovative and established businesses
Enhances revenue and earnings growth profile of innovative and established businesses
Broadens innovative pipeline with more than 100 combined mid-to-late stage programs in development
Transaction expected to close in the second half of 2016
Expected to be neutral to Pfizer’s Adjusted Diluted EPS1 in 2017, accretive beginning in calendar year 2018 and more than 10% accretive in 2019 with high-teens percentage accretion in 20202
Expect combined Operating Cash Flow in excess of $25 Billion beginning in 2018
Increased financial flexibility facilitates continued investment in the United States
Preserves opportunity for a potential future separation of innovative and established businesses
Pfizer Inc. November 23, 2015 7:03 AM
?
Done
NEW YORK & DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pfizer Inc. ( PFE ) and Allergan plc ( AGN ) today announced that       their boards of directors have unanimously approved, and the companies       have entered into, a definitive merger agreement under which Pfizer, a       global innovative biopharmaceutical company, will combine with Allergan,       a global pharmaceutical company and a leader in a new industry model –       Growth Pharma, in a stock transaction currently valued at $363.63 per       Allergan share, for a total enterprise value of approximately $160       billion, based on the closing price of Pfizer common stock of $32.18 on       November 20, 2015. The transaction represents more than a 30 percent       premium based on Pfizer’s and Allergan’s unaffected share prices as of       October 28, 2015. Allergan shareholders will receive 11.3 shares of the       combined company for each of their Allergan shares, and Pfizer       stockholders will receive one share of the combined company for each of       their Pfizer shares.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151123005580/en/
“The proposed combination of Pfizer and Allergan will create a leading       global pharmaceutical company with the strength to research, discover       and deliver more medicines and therapies to more people around the       world,” stated Ian Read, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer.       “Allergan’s businesses align with and enhance Pfizer’s businesses,       creating best-in-class, sustainable, innovative and established       businesses that are poised for growth. Through this combination, Pfizer       will have greater financial flexibility that will facilitate our       continued discovery and development of new innovative medicines for       patients, direct return of capital to shareholders, and continued       investment in the United States, while also enabling our pursuit of       business development opportunities on a more competitive footing within       our industry.”
“The combination of Allergan and Pfizer is a highly strategic,       value-enhancing transaction that brings together two biopharma       powerhouses to change lives for the better,” said Brent Saunders, Chief       Executive Officer, Allergan. “This bold action is the next chapter in       the successful transformation of Allergan allowing us to operate with       greater resources at a much bigger scale. Joining forces with Pfizer       matches our leading products in seven high growth therapeutic areas and       our robust R&D pipeline with Pfizer’s leading innovative and established       businesses, vast global footprint and strength in discovery and       development research to create a new biopharma leader.”
Under the terms of the proposed transaction, the businesses of Pfizer       and Allergan will be combined under Allergan plc, which will be renamed       “Pfizer plc.” The companies expect that shares of the combined company       will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trade under the “PFE”       ticker. Upon the closing of the transaction, the combined company is       expected to maintain Allergan’s Irish legal domicile. Pfizer plc will       have its global operational headquarters in New York and its principal       executive offices in Ireland.
Pfizer’s innovative businesses will be significantly enhanced by the       addition of a growing revenue stream from Allergan’s durable and       innovative flagship brands in desirable therapeutic areas such as       Aesthetics and Dermatology, Eye Care, Gastrointestinal, Neuroscience and       Urology. The combined company will benefit from a broader innovative       portfolio of leading medicines in key categories and a platform for       sustainable growth with diversified payer groups. With the addition of       Allergan, Pfizer will enhance its R&D capabilities in both new molecular       entities and product line extensions. A combined pipeline of more than       100 mid-to-late stage programs in development and greater resources to       invest in R&D and manufacturing is expected to sustain the growth of the       innovative business over the long term. Through product approvals,       launches and inline performance the combined company aspires to be a       leader in growth.
The combination of Pfizer and Allergan will significantly increase the       scale of Pfizer’s established business, and their complementary       capabilities will maximize the combined established portfolio. The       addition of Allergan’s Women’s Health and Anti-Infectives portfolio will       add depth to Pfizer’s established business, and Pfizer will expand the       reach of Allergan’s established portfolio using its existing commercial       capabilities, infrastructure and global scale. In addition, Allergan       brings topical formulation, manufacturing and its Anda distribution       capabilities to the combined company.
As a result of the combination with Allergan and subsequent integration       of the two companies, Pfizer now expects to make a decision about a       potential separation of the combined company’s innovative and       established businesses by no later than the end of 2018.
Financial Highlights
Pfizer anticipates the transaction will deliver more than $2 billion in       operational synergies over the first three years after closing. Pfizer       anticipates that the combined company will have a pro forma Adjusted       Effective Tax Rate1 of approximately 17%-18% by the first       full year after the closing of the transaction. The transaction is       expected to be neutral to Pfizer’s Adjusted Diluted EPS1 in       2017, modestly accretive beginning in calendar year 2018, more than 10%       accretive in 2019 with high-teens percentage accretion in 2020. These       expectations include the impact of expected share repurchases following       the transaction. The combined company is expected to generate annual       operating cash flow in excess of $25 billion beginning in 2018.
The transaction is not expected to have an impact on Pfizer’s existing       dividend level on a per share basis. It is expected that the combined       company will use its combined cash flow to continue to support an       attractive dividend policy, targeting a payout ratio of approximately       50% of Adjusted Diluted EPS.1
Independent of the transaction and consistent with 2015, Pfizer       anticipates executing an approximately $5 billion accelerated share       repurchase program in the first half of 2016. Pfizer has approximately       $5.4 billion remaining under its previously announced repurchase       authorization.
Transaction Details
The completion of the transaction, which is expected in the second half       of 2016, is subject to certain conditions, including receipt of       regulatory approval in certain jurisdictions, including the United       States and European Union, the receipt of necessary approvals from both       Pfizer and Allergan shareholders, and the completion of Allergan’s       pending divestiture of its generics business to Teva Pharmaceuticals       Ltd., which Allergan expects will close in the first quarter of 2016.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, the Allergan parent       company will be the parent company of the combined group. A wholly owned       subsidiary of Allergan will be merged with and into Pfizer, and subject       to receipt of shareholder approval, the Allergan parent company will be       renamed “Pfizer plc” after the closing of the transaction. Immediately       prior to the merger, Allergan will effect an 11.3-for-one share       split so that each Allergan shareholder will receive 11.3 shares       of the combined company for each of their Allergan shares, and the Pfizer stockholders will receive one share of the combined company for each       of their Pfizer shares. Pfizer’s U.S. stockholders will recognize a       taxable gain, but not a loss, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The       transaction is expected to be tax-free for U.S. federal income       tax purposes to Allergan shareholders.
Pfizer stockholders will have the opportunity to elect to receive cash       instead of stock of the combined company for some or all of their Pfizer       shares, provided that the aggregate amount of cash to be paid in the       merger will not be less than $6 billion or greater than $12 billion. In       the event that the aggregate cash to be paid in the merger would       otherwise be less than $6 billion or greater than $12 billion, then the       stock and cash elections will be subject to proration.
Following the transaction, and assuming that all $12 billion of cash is       paid in the merger, it is expected that former Pfizer stockholders will       hold approximately 56% of the combined company and Allergan shareholders       will own approximately 44% of the combined company on a fully diluted       basis.
Governance and Leadership
Pfizer plc’s board is expected to have 15 directors, consisting of all       of Pfizer’s 11 current directors and 4 current directors of Allergan.       The directors from Allergan will be Paul Bisaro, Allergan’s current       Executive Chairman, Brent Saunders, Allergan’s current Chief Executive       Officer (CEO), and two other directors from Allergan to be selected at a       later date. Ian Read, Pfizer’s Chairman and CEO, will serve as Chairman       and CEO of the combined company. Brent Saunders will serve as President       and Chief Operating Officer of the combined company. He will be       responsible for the oversight of all Pfizer and Allergan’s combined       commercial businesses, manufacturing and strategy functions.
Guggenheim Securities, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Centerview Partners and       Moelis & Company are serving as Pfizer’s financial advisors for the       transaction, with Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Skadden, Arps, Slate,       Meagher & Flom LLP and A & L Goodbody acting as its legal advisors.
J.P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley are serving as Allergan’s financial       advisors for the transaction with Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP,       Latham & Watkins LLP and Arthur Cox acting as its legal advisors.
Conference Call
Pfizer Inc. invites investors and the general public to view and listen       to a webcast of a live conference call with investment analysts at 8:30       a.m. EST on Monday, November 23, 2015.
To view and listen to the webcast visit our web site at www.Pfizer.com and click on the “Pfizer Analyst and Investor Call to Discuss Proposed       Combination with Allergan” link in the For Investors section located on       the lower right-hand corner of that page, or directly at https://www.webcaster4.com/Webcast/Page/748/11982 .       Information on accessing and pre-registering for the webcast will be       available at www.Pfizer.com beginning today. Participants are advised to pre-register in advance of       the conference call.
You can also listen to the conference call by dialing either (866)       246-2545 in the United States and Canada or (631) 485-4476 outside of       the United States and Canada. The password is “Analyst Call”. Please       join the call five minutes prior to the start time to avoid operator       hold times.
About Pfizer
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of health care products. Our global       portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer health care products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. To learn more, please visit us at  www.pfizer.com .
About Allergan
Allergan plc ( AGN ), headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, is a unique,       global pharmaceutical company and a leader in a new industry model –       Growth Pharma. Allergan is focused on developing, manufacturing and       commercializing innovative branded pharmaceuticals, high-quality generic       and over-the-counter medicines and biologic products for patients around       the world.
Allergan markets a portfolio of best-in-class products that provide       valuable treatments for the central nervous system, eye care, medical       aesthetics, gastroenterology, women's health, urology, cardiovascular       and anti-infective therapeutic categories, and operates the world's       third-largest global generics business, providing patients around the       globe with increased access to affordable, high-quality medicines.       Allergan is an industry leader in research and development, with one of       the broadest development pipelines in the pharmaceutical industry and a       leading position in the submission of generic product applications       globally.
With commercial operations in approximately 100 countries, Allergan is       committed to working with physicians, healthcare providers and patients       to deliver innovative and meaningful treatments that help people around       the world live longer, healthier lives.
For more information, visit Allergan's website at www.allergan.com
NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION
This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer       to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an       invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the       solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction, nor shall       there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any       jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law.
This communication is not intended to be and is not a prospectus for the       purposes of Part 23 of the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland (the “2014       Act”), Prospectus (Directive 2003/71/EC) Regulations 2005 (S.I. No. 324       of 2005) of Ireland (as amended from time to time) or the Prospectus       Rules issued by the Central Bank of Ireland pursuant to section 1363 of       the 2014 Act, and the Central Bank of Ireland (“CBI”) has not approved       this communication.
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC
In connection with the proposed transaction between Pfizer Inc.       (“Pfizer”) and Allergan plc (“Allergan”), Allergan will file with the       U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration       statement on Form S-4 that will include a Joint Proxy Statement of       Pfizer and Allergan that also constitutes a Prospectus of Allergan (the       “Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus”). Pfizer and Allergan plan to mail to       their respective shareholders the definitive Joint Proxy       Statement/Prospectus in connection with the transaction. INVESTORS AND       SECURITY HOLDERS OF PFIZER AND ALLERGAN ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT       PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE       FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY       WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PFIZER, ALLERGAN, THE       TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors and security holders will be       able to obtain free copies of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when       available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Pfizer and Allergan       through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov .       In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free       copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Pfizer by contacting       Pfizer Investor Relations at Bryan.Dunn@pfizer.com or by calling (212) 733-8917, and will be able to obtain free copies of       the documents filed with the SEC by Allergan by contacting Allergan       Investor Relations at investor.relations@actavis.com or by calling (862) 261-7488.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
Pfizer, Allergan and certain of their respective directors, executive       officers and employees may be considered participants in the       solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction.       Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC,       be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective       shareholders of Pfizer and Allergan in connection with the proposed       transactions, including a description of their direct or indirect       interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be set forth in the       Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus when it is filed with the SEC.       Information regarding Pfizer’s directors and executive officers is       contained in Pfizer’s proxy statement for its 2015 annual meeting of       stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 12, 2015, and       certain of Pfizer’s Current Reports on Form 8-K. Information regarding       Allergan’s directors and executive officers is contained in Allergan’s       proxy statement for its 2015 annual meeting of shareholders, which was       filed with the SEC on April 24, 2015, and certain of Allergan’s Current       Reports on Form 8-K.
Pfizer Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This communication contains certain forward-looking statements with       respect to the proposed transaction between Pfizer and Allergan. These       forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do       not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking       statements often use future dates or words such as “anticipate”,       “target”, “possible”, potential”, “predict”, “project”, “forecast”,       “outlook”, “guidance”, “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, “plan”, “goal”,       “believe”, “hope”, “aim”, “continue”, “will”, “may”, “might”, “would”,       “could” or “should” or other words, phrases or expressions of similar       meaning or the negative thereof. Such forward-looking statements       include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the       proposed transaction, including anticipated future financial and       operating results, synergies, accretion and growth rates, Pfizer’s,       Allergan’s and the combined company’s plans, objectives, expectations       and intentions, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends and       the expected timing of completion of the transaction. There are several       factors which could cause actual plans and results to differ materially       from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Such       factors include, but are not limited to, the failure to obtain necessary       regulatory approvals (and the risk that such approvals may result in the       imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined       company or the expected benefits of the transaction) and shareholder       approvals or to satisfy any of the other conditions to the transaction       on a timely basis or at all, the occurrence of events that may give rise       to a right of one or both of the parties to terminate the merger       agreement, adverse effects on the market price of Pfizer’s common stock       and on Pfizer’s operating results because of a failure to complete the       transaction in the anticipated time frame or at all, failure to realize       the expected benefits and synergies of the transaction, restructuring in       connection with the transaction and subsequent integration of Pfizer and       Allergan, negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of       the transaction on the market price of Pfizer’s common stock and on       Pfizer’s operating results, risks relating to the value of the Allergan       shares to be issued in the transaction, significant transaction costs       and/or unknown liabilities, the risk of litigation and/or regulatory       actions, the loss of key senior management or scientific staff, general       economic and business conditions that affect the companies following the       transaction, changes in global, political, economic, business,       competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest       rates, changes in tax and other laws, regulations, rates and policies,       future business combinations or disposals, competitive developments and       the uncertainties inherent in research and development. By their nature,       forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and       uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances       that will occur in the future. The factors described in the context of       such forward-looking statements in this communication could cause       Pfizer’s plans with respect to Allergan, actual results, performance or       achievements, industry results and developments to differ materially       from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.       Persons reading this communication are cautioned not to place undue       reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as at the       date of this communication. Pfizer assumes no obligation to update or       revise the information contained in this communication (whether as a       result of new information, future events or otherwise), except as       required by applicable law. A further description of risks and       uncertainties can be found in Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for       the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and in its subsequent reports on       Form 10-Q, including in the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors”       and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future       Results”, as well as in its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which       are filed with the SEC and available at www.sec.gov and www.pfizer.com .
Allergan Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements contained in this communication that refer to Allergan’s       anticipated future events, estimated or anticipated future results, or       other non-historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect       Allergan’s current perspective of existing trends and information as of       the date of this communication. Forward looking statements generally       will be accompanied by words such as such as “anticipate”, “target”,       “possible”, potential”, “predict”, “project”, “forecast”, “outlook”,       “guidance”, “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, “plan”, “goal”, “believe”,       “hope”, “aim”, “continue”, “will”, “may”, “might”, “would”, “could” or       “should” or other similar words, phrases or expressions or the negatives       thereof. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited       to, statements about the benefits of the proposed transaction, including       future financial and operating results and synergies, Pfizer’s,       Allergan’s and the combined company’s plans, objectives, expectations       and intentions and the expected timing of completion of the transaction.       It is important to note that Allergan’s goals and expectations are not       predictions of actual performance. Actual results may differ materially       from Allergan’s current expectations depending upon a number of factors       affecting Allergan’s business, Pfizer’s business and risks associated       with business combination transactions. These factors include, among       others, the inherent uncertainty associated with financial projections;       restructuring in connection with, and successful closing of, the       proposed transaction; subsequent integration of the Pfizer and Allergan       and the ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of       the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain required regulatory       approvals for the transaction (including the approval of antitrust       authorities necessary to complete the transaction), the timing of       obtaining such approvals and the risk that such approvals may result in       the imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined       company or the expected benefits of the transaction; the ability to       obtain the requisite Pfizer and Allergan shareholder approvals; the risk       that a condition to closing of the proposed transaction may not be       satisfied on a timely basis or at all; the failure of the proposed       transaction to close for any other reason; risks relating to the value       of the Allergan shares to be issued in the transaction; the anticipated       size of the markets and continued demand for Pfizer’s and Allergan’s       products; the difficulty of predicting the timing or outcome of FDA       approvals or actions, if any; the impact of competitive products and       pricing; market acceptance of and continued demand for Allergan’s and       Pfizer’s products; difficulties or delays in manufacturing; the risks of       fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the risks and       uncertainties normally incident to the pharmaceutical industry,       including product liability claims and the availability of product       liability insurance on reasonable terms; the difficulty of predicting       the timing or outcome of pending or future litigation or government       investigations; periodic dependence on a small number of products for a       material source of net revenue or income; variability of trade buying       patterns; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; risks       that the carrying values of assets may be negatively impacted by future       events and circumstances; the timing and success of product launches;       costs and efforts to defend or enforce intellectual property rights; the       availability and pricing of third party sourced products and materials;       successful compliance with governmental regulations applicable to       Allergan’s and Pfizer’s facilities, products and/or businesses; changes       in the laws and regulations affecting, among other things, pricing and       reimbursement of pharmaceutical products; risks associated with tax       liabilities, or changes in U.S. federal or international tax laws or       interpretations to which they are subject, including the risk that the       Internal Revenue Service disagrees that Allergan is a foreign       corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes; the loss of key senior       management or scientific staff; and such other risks and uncertainties       detailed in Allergan’s periodic public filings with the Securities and       Exchange Commission, including but not limited to Allergan’s Annual       Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, Quarterly       Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2015,       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September       30, 2015, and from time to time in Allergan’s other investor       communications. Except as expressly required by law, Allergan disclaims       any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Applicability of the Irish Takeover Rules
As the transaction constitutes a "reverse takeover transaction" for the       purposes of the Irish Takeover Panel Act, 1997, Takeover Rules, 2013,       (the "Irish Takeover Rules"), Allergan is no longer in an offer period       and therefore Rule 8 of the Irish Takeover Rules does not apply to the       transaction from the date of this announcement and therefore there is no       longer a requirement to make dealing disclosures pursuant to Rule 8.
Statement Required by the Irish Takeover Rules
The directors of Pfizer accept responsibility for the information       contained in this communication other than that relating to Allergan and       the Allergan group of companies and the directors of Allergan and       members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons       connected with them. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the       directors of Pfizer (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that       such is the case), the information contained in this communication for       which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and       does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
The directors of Allergan accept responsibility for the information       contained in this communication relating to Allergan and the directors       of Allergan and members of their immediate families, related trusts and       persons connected with them. To the best of the knowledge and belief of       the directors of Allergan (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure       such is the case), the information contained in this communication for       which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and       does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
Goldman Sachs International, which is authorised by the Prudential       Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority       and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, and its       affiliate, Goldman, Sachs & Co, are acting as joint financial adviser to       Pfizer and no one else in connection with the proposed transaction. In       connection with the proposed transaction, Goldman Sachs International       and Goldman, Sachs & Co, their affiliates and their respective partners,       directors, officers, employees and agents will not regard any other       person as their client, nor will they be responsible to anyone other       than Pfizer for providing the protections afforded to their clients or       for giving advice in connection with the proposed transaction or any       other matter referred to in this announcement.
Guggenheim Securities, LLC is a broker dealer registered with the United       States Securities and Exchange Commission and is acting as financial       advisor to Pfizer and no one else in connection with the proposed       transaction. In connection with the proposed transaction, Guggenheim       Securities, LLC, its affiliates and related entities and its and their       respective partners, directors, officers, employees and agents will not       regard any other person as their client, nor will they be responsible to       anyone other than Pfizer for providing the protections afforded to their       clients or for giving advice in connection with the proposed transaction       or any other matter referred to in this announcement.
J.P. Morgan Limited (which conducts its UK investment banking business       as J.P. Morgan Cazenove) (“J.P. Morgan”), which is authorised and       regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority, is       acting as financial adviser exclusively for Allergan and no one else in       connection with the matters set out in this announcement and will not       regard any other person as its client in relation to the matters in this       announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Allergan       for providing the protections afforded to clients of J.P. Morgan or its       affiliates, nor for providing advice in relation to any matter referred       to herein.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC acting through its affiliate, Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, is financial advisor to Allergan and no one else       in connection with the matters referred to in this announcement. In       connection with such matters, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, each of their affiliates and each of their and       their affiliates' respective directors, officers, employees and agents       will not regard any other person as their client, nor will they be       responsible to any other person other than Allergan for providing the protections afforded to their clients or for providing advice in       connection with the contents of this announcement or any other matter       referred to herein.
NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, IN,       INTO OR FROM ANY JURISDICTION WHERE TO DO SO WOULD CONSTITUTE A       VIOLATION OF THE RELEVANT LAWS OR REGULATIONS OF SUCH JURISDICTION.
1 Adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS       are defined as U.S. GAAP reported net income and its components and U.S.       GAAP reported diluted EPS excluding purchase accounting adjustments,       acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain       significant items. Pfizer believes that investors’ understanding of its       performance is enhanced by disclosing this measure. The Adjusted income       and its components and adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and should       not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its       components and diluted EPS.
2 Expectations include the impact of expected share       repurchases following the transaction. For more information please go to www.premierbiopharmaleader.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151123005580/en/
Financials Industry
