Pfizer Reports Positive Topline Results from Phase 3 Trial Comparing XALKORI® (crizotinib) to Chemotherapy in Previously Untreated East Asian Patients with ALK-Positive Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
Data Reinforces XALKORI Superiority Over Chemotherapy in Prolonging PFS in Patients with ALK-Positive Advanced NSCLC
Pfizer Inc. November 18, 2015 8:00 AM
?
Done
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Pfizer Inc. announced today that PROFILE 1029, a Phase 3 study of       anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor XALKORI® (crizotinib), met its primary objective of significantly prolonging       progression-free survival (PFS) in previously untreated East Asian       patients with ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)       when compared to a standard chemotherapy doublet. In this study, XALKORI       was used as the first systemic therapy for patients with advanced       ALK-positive NSCLC, and patients could have received therapy and/or       surgery for early stage disease before they were diagnosed with       metastatic disease.
The adverse events observed with XALKORI in the study were generally       consistent with findings from previous trials. No unexpected adverse       events were observed. Efficacy and safety data from PROFILE 1029 will be       submitted for presentation at a future medical meeting.
PROFILE 1029 is the second positive Phase 3 study for XALKORI in the       first-line setting and the third positive Phase 3 study for XALKORI in       ALK-positive NSCLC. The PROFILE 1014 and PROFILE 1007 trials       demonstrated that XALKORI was superior to chemotherapy in the first-line       and the second-line settings, respectively.
“When evaluated specifically in East Asian patients with ALK-positive       NSCLC, XALKORI was demonstrated to be superior to chemotherapy in terms       of prolonging progression-free survival. This is consistent with the       results of previous global randomized clinical trials that included       Asian and Western patients, which also demonstrated an improvement in       progression-free survival compared to standard-of-care chemotherapy”       said Dr. Mace Rothenberg, senior vice president of Clinical Development       and Medical Affairs and chief medical officer for Pfizer Oncology.       “These results also underscore the importance of early and routine       biomarker testing in patients with advanced NSCLC so that these patients       can be identified and treated appropriately.”
XALKORI was the first ALK inhibitor approved by regulatory authorities       in the United States (U.S.), European Union, China and Japan, and it is       now approved in more than 85 countries. XALKORI is widely recognized as       a standard of care for patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC. To       date, more than 20,000 patients have been treated with XALKORI worldwide.1
About Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Worldwide, lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in both men       and women.2 NSCLC accounts for about 85 percent of lung       cancer cases and remains difficult to treat, particularly in the       metastatic setting.3 Approximately 57 percent of NSCLC       patients are diagnosed late with metastatic, or advanced, disease where       the five-year survival rate is only 5 percent.4
XALKORI® (crizotinib) Indication and       Important Safety Information (as per U.S. Prescribing Information)
XALKORI is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients       with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors are       anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive as detected by an FDA-approved       test.
Hepatotoxicity: Drug-induced hepatotoxicity with fatal outcome       occurred in 0.1% of patients treated with XALKORI across clinical trials       (n=1669). Transaminase elevations generally occurred within the first 2       months. Monitor with liver function tests including ALT and total       bilirubin every 2 weeks during the first 2 months of treatment, then       once a month and as clinically indicated, with more frequent repeat       testing for increased liver transaminases, alkaline phosphatase, or       total bilirubin in patients who develop transaminase elevations.       Permanently discontinue for ALT/AST elevation >3 times ULN with       concurrent total bilirubin elevation >1.5 times ULN (in the absence of       cholestasis or hemolysis); otherwise, temporarily suspend and       dose-reduce XALKORI as indicated.
Interstitial Lung Disease (Pneumonitis): Severe,       life-threatening, or fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis       can occur. Across clinical trials (n=1669), 2.9% of XALKORI-treated       patients had any grade ILD, 1.1% had Grade 3/4, and 0.5% had fatal ILD.       These cases generally occurred within 3 months after initiation of       treatment. Monitor for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis.       Exclude other potential causes and permanently discontinue XALKORI in       patients with drug-related ILD/pneumonitis.
QT Interval Prolongation: QTc prolongation can occur. Across       clinical trials (n=1560), 2.1% of patients had QTcF (corrected QT by the       Fridericia method) ?500 ms and 5.0% had an increase from baseline QTcF       ?60 ms by automated machine-read evaluation of ECG. Avoid use in       patients with congenital long QT syndrome. Consider periodic monitoring       with ECGs and electrolytes in patients with congestive heart failure,       bradyarrhythmias, electrolyte abnormalities, or who are taking       medications that prolong the QT interval. Permanently discontinue       XALKORI in patients who develop QTc >500 ms or ?60 ms change from       baseline with Torsade de pointes, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia,       or signs/symptoms of serious arrhythmia. Withhold XALKORI in patients       who develop QTc >500 ms on at least 2 separate ECGs until recovery to a       QTc ?480 ms, then resume at a reduced dose.
Bradycardia: Symptomatic bradycardia can occur. Across clinical       trials, bradycardia occurred in 12.3% of patients treated with XALKORI       (N=1669). Avoid use in combination with other agents known to cause       bradycardia. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly. In cases       of symptomatic bradycardia that is not life-threatening, hold XALKORI       until recovery to asymptomatic bradycardia or to a heart rate of ?60       bpm, re-evaluate the use of concomitant medications, and adjust the dose       of XALKORI. Permanently discontinue for life-threatening bradycardia due       to XALKORI; however, if associated with concomitant medications known to       cause bradycardia or hypotension, hold XALKORI until recovery to       asymptomatic bradycardia or to a heart rate of ?60 bpm. If concomitant       medications can be adjusted or discontinued, restart XALKORI at 250 mg       once daily with frequent monitoring.
Vision Disorders: Most commonly visual impairment, photopsia,       blurred vision or vitreous floaters, occurred in 62% of 1669 patients.       The majority (95%) of these patients had Grade 1 visual adverse       reactions. 0.8% of patients had Grade 3 and 0.2% had Grade 4 visual       impairment. The majority of patients on the XALKORI arms in Studies 1       and 2 (>50%) reported visual disturbances which occurred at a frequency       of 4-7 days each week, lasted up to 1 minute, and had mild or no impact       on daily activities.
Severe Visual Loss: Across clinical trials, the incidence of       Grade 4 visual field defect with vision loss was 0.2% (N=1669).       Discontinue XALKORI in patients with new onset of severe visual loss       (best corrected vision less than 20/200 in one or both eyes). Perform an       ophthalmological evaluation. There is insufficient information to       characterize the risks of resumption of XALKORI in patients with a       severe visual loss; a decision to resume should consider the potential       benefits to the patient.
Embryofetal Toxicity: XALKORI can cause fetal harm when       administered to a pregnant woman. Advise of the potential risk to the       fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential and males with female       partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during       treatment and for at least 45 days (females) or 90 days (males)       respectively, following the final dose of XALKORI.
Adverse Reactions: Safety was evaluated in a phase 3 study in       previously untreated patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC       randomized to XALKORI (n=171) or chemotherapy (n=169). Serious adverse       events were reported in 34% of patients treated with XALKORI, the most       frequent were dyspnea (4.1%) and pulmonary embolism (2.9%). Fatal       adverse events in XALKORI-treated patients occurred in 2.3% of patients,       consisting of septic shock, acute respiratory failure, and diabetic       ketoacidosis. Common adverse reactions (all grades) occurring in ?25%       and more commonly (?5%) in patients treated with XALKORI vs chemotherapy       were vision disorder (71% vs 10%), diarrhea (61% vs 13%), edema (49% vs       12%), vomiting (46% vs 36%), constipation (43% vs 30%), upper       respiratory infection (32% vs 12%), dysgeusia (26% vs 5%), and abdominal       pain (26% vs 12%). Grade 3/4 reactions occurring at a ?2% higher       incidence with XALKORI vs chemotherapy were QT prolongation (2% vs 0%),       and constipation (2% vs 0%). In patients treated with XALKORI vs       chemotherapy, the following occurred: elevation of ALT (any grade [79%       vs 33%] or Grade 3/4 [15% vs 2%]); elevation of AST (any grade [66% vs       28%] or Grade 3/4 [8% vs 1%]); neutropenia (any grade [52% vs 59%] or       Grade 3/4 [11% vs 16%]); lymphopenia (any grade [48% vs 53%] or Grade       3/4 [7% vs 13%]); hypophosphatemia (any grade [32% vs 21%] or Grade 3/4       [10% vs 6%]). In patients treated with XALKORI vs chemotherapy, renal       cysts occurred (5% vs 1%). Nausea (56%) decreased appetite (30%),       fatigue (29%), and neuropathy (21%) also occurred in patients taking       XALKORI.
Drug Interactions: Exercise caution with concomitant use of       moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice which       may increase plasma concentrations of crizotinib. Avoid concomitant use       of strong CYP3A inducers and inhibitors. Avoid concomitant use of CYP3A       substrates with narrow therapeutic range in patients taking XALKORI. If       concomitant use of CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range is       required in patients taking XALKORI, dose reductions of the CYP3A       substrates may be required due to adverse reactions.
Lactation: Because of the potential for adverse reactions in       breastfed infants, advise females not to breast feed during treatment       with XALKORI and for 45 days after the final dose.
Hepatic Impairment: XALKORI has not been studied in patients with       hepatic impairment. As crizotinib is extensively metabolized in the       liver, hepatic impairment is likely to increase plasma crizotinib       concentrations. Use caution in patients with hepatic impairment.
Renal Impairment: Administer XALKORI at a starting dose of 250 mg       taken orally once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) not requiring dialysis. No starting dose adjustment is       needed for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment.
For more information and full prescribing information visit www.XALKORI.com .
About Pfizer Oncology
Pfizer Oncology is committed to the discovery, investigation and       development of innovative treatment options to improve the outlook for       cancer patients worldwide. Our strong pipeline of biologics and small       molecules, one of the most robust in the industry, is studied with       precise focus on identifying and translating the best scientific       breakthroughs into clinical application for patients across a wide range       of cancers. By working collaboratively with academic institutions,       individual researchers, cooperative research groups, governments, and       licensing partners, Pfizer Oncology strives to cure or control cancer       with breakthrough medicines, to deliver the right drug for each patient       at the right time. For more information, please visit www.pfizer.com .
Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world®
At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies       to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive       to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery,       development and manufacture of health care products. Our global       portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world's       best-known consumer health care products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues       work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness,       prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases       of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's       premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with       health care providers, governments and local communities to support and       expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For       more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who       rely on us. To learn more, please visit us at www.pfizer.com .
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information contained in this release       is as of November 18, 2015. Pfizer assumes no obligation to update       forward-looking statements contained in this release as the result of       new information or future events or developments.
This release contains forward-looking information that involves       substantial risks and uncertainties regarding XALKORI, including its       potential benefits, and about the PROFILE 1029 trial. Risks and       uncertainties include, among other things, the uncertainties inherent in       research and development, including further investigation of the       clinical benefit of XALKORI, the ability to meet anticipated clinical       trial commencement and completion dates and regulatory submission dates,       as well as the possibility of unfavorable clinical trial results,       including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of       existing clinical data; uncertainty concerning the commercial impact of       the outcome of the PROFILE 1029 trial; decisions by regulatory       authorities regarding labeling and other matters that could affect the       availability or commercial potential of XALKORI; and competitive developments.
A further description of risks and uncertainties can be found in       Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December       31, 2014 and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the       sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking       Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, as well as in       its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed with the SEC       and available at  www.sec.gov  and  www.pfizer.com .
# # # # #
1 Pfizer data on file.
2 The International Agency for Research on Cancer, the World       Health Organization, GLOBOCAN 2012, Available at: http://globocan.iarc.fr/Pages/fact_sheets_cancer.aspx .       Accessed October 8, 2015.
3 Reade CA, Ganti AK. EGFR targeted therapy in non-small cell       lung cancer: potential role of cetuximab. Biologics. 2009; 3: 215 224.
4 National Cancer Institute. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and       End Results Program. Seer Stat Fact Sheets: Lung and Bronchus Cancer. http://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/lungb.html .       Accessed October 8, 2015.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151118005758/en/
Health Care Industry
