SAN DIEGO, April 4, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Shareholder rights law firm Johnson & Weaver, LLP has launched an investigation into whether the board members of Virgin America Inc. (VA) breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed sale of the Company to Alaska Air Group, Inc. (ALK). View photo On April 4, 2016, Virgin America announced it had signed a definitive merger agreement with Alaska Air. Under the terms of the agreement, Alaska Air will acquire Virgin America for $57.00 per share in cash. The investigation concerns whether the Virgin America board failed to satisfy their duties to the Company shareholders, including whether the board adequately pursued alternatives to the acquisition and whether the board obtained the best price possible for Virgin America shares of common stock. If you are a shareholder of Virgin America and believe the proposed buyout price is too low or you're interested in learning more about the investigation or your legal rights and remedies, please contact lead analyst Jim Baker (jimb@johnsonandweaver.com) at 619-814-4471. If emailing, please include a phone number where you can be reached. About Johnson & Weaver, LLP: Johnson & Weaver, LLP is a nationally recognized shareholder rights law firm with offices in California, New York and Georgia. The firm represents individual and institutional investors in shareholder derivative and securities class action lawsuits. For more information about the firm and its attorneys, please visit http://www.johnsonandweaver.com. Attorney advertising. Past results do not guarantee future outcomes. Contact: Johnson & Weaver, LLP Jim Baker, 619-814-4471 jimb@johnsonandweaver.com Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160211/332409LOGO   To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/virgin-americava-alert-johnson--weaver-llp-launches-an-investigation-into-the-fairness-of-price-and-process-in-proposed-sale-of-virgin-america-inc-are-virgin-america-shareholders-getting-a-fair-price-300245529.html