AdCare Health Systems, Inc. Declares Quarterly Dividend on Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
AdCare Health Systems, Inc. September 2, 2015 8:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
ATLANTA, Sept. 2, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- AdCare Health Systems, Inc. (NYSE MKT: ADK), (NYSE MKT: ADK.PRA), a self-managed healthcare real estate investment company that invests primarily in real estate purposed for senior living and long-term healthcare, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend payment on the Company's 10.875% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred Stock"), accruing from July 1, 2015 through September 30, 2015.
The dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock will be payable on September 30, 2015 to holders of record at the close of business on September 18, 2015. The dividend payment will be $0.68 per share, which is equivalent to an annualized 10.875% per share of the $25.00 per share stated liquidation preference. The Series A Preferred Stock is listed on the NYSE MKT LLC and trades under the symbol "ADK.PRA".
About AdCare Health Systems
AdCare Health Systems, Inc. (NYSE MKT: ADK) (NYSE MKT: ADK.PRA) is a self-managed healthcare real estate investment company that invests primarily in real estate purposed for senior living and long-term healthcare through facility lease and sub-lease transactions. The Company currently owns, leases or manages for third parties 39 facilities, primarily in the Southeast. For more information about AdCare, visit www.adcarehealth.com .
Important Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements contained in this press release that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal law. Such statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "plans," "intends," "anticipates" and variations of such words or similar expressions, but their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking. Statements in this press release that are forward-looking include, among other things, statements regarding the favorable economic impact of the modifications to the master lease and statements regarding the modification of the subleases. Such forward-looking statements reflect management's beliefs and assumptions and are based upon information currently available to management and involve known and unknown risks, results, performance or achievements of AdCare, which may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors are identified in the public filings made by AdCare with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including AdCare's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. There is no assurance that such factors or other factors will not affect the accuracy of such forward-looking statements. Except where required by law, AdCare undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
References to the consolidated company and its assets and activities, as well as the use of terms such as "we," "us," "our," and similar verbiage, is not meant to imply that AdCare Health Systems, Inc. has direct operating assets, employees or revenue or that any of the facilities, the home health business or other related businesses are operated by the same entity.
 
To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/adcare-health-systems-inc-declares-quarterly-dividend-on-series-a-cumulative-redeemable-preferred-stock-300136426.html
Venture Capital
