NRG Yield, Inc. Announces Launch of Offering of Class C Common Stock
NRG Yield, Inc. June 22, 2015 4:14 PM
?
Done
PRINCETON, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
NRG Yield, Inc. (NYSE:NYLD, NYLD.A) (“NRG Yield” or the “Company”) today       announced the launch of a public offering of 24,520,000 shares of its       Class C common stock. In addition, the underwriters have a 30-day option       to purchase up to an additional 3,678,000 shares of Class C common stock       from the Company.
The Company intends to use all of the net proceeds of the offering to       acquire newly issued Class C units of NRG Yield LLC (“Yield LLC”). Yield       LLC intends to use the net proceeds of the offering, together with cash       on hand: (i) to fund the Company’s $285 million acquisition of a 25%       equity interest in Desert Sunlight; and (ii) if consummated, to repay a       portion of the $490 million of outstanding project debt associated with       the Company’s Alta X and Alta XI wind facilities, with an interest rate       of LIBOR plus 2% and a maturity date of 2021, in connection with the       proposed tax equity financing of such assets. Any funds remaining are       expected to be used, or in the event that either the Desert Sunlight       acquisition or the Alta X and Alta XI tax equity financing are not       consummated for any reason such funds are expected to be used, for       repayment of other indebtedness, including under the Company’s revolving       credit facility, and for general corporate purposes, including future       acquisitions of additional assets from NRG or third parties.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., BofA Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Global Markets Inc.,       Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan       Stanley & Co. LLC and RBC Capital Markets, LLC will act as joint book       runners for the offering. Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank       Securities Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ       Securities (USA), Inc. will act as co-managers for the offering.
A shelf registration statement (including a prospectus) relating to the       offering has been filed with the SEC and has become effective. Before       you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration       statement and the applicable prospectus supplement and other documents       the Company has filed or will file with the SEC for more complete       information about the Company and the offering. You may get these       documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC website at www.sec.gov .       Alternatively, the Company, any underwriter or any dealer participating       in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus relating to the       offering if you request it by contacting Goldman, Sachs & Co.,       Prospectus Department, 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282, telephone:       1.866.471.2526, facsimile: 1.212.902.9316 or by emailing prospectus-ny@ny.email.gs.com ;       BofA Merrill Lynch, Prospectus Department, 222 Broadway, New York, New       York 10038 or by emailing dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com ;       Citigroup Global Markets Inc., c/o Broadridge Financial Services, 1155       Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717 or by calling (800) 831-9146 or       by emailing prospectus@citi.com ;       Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street,       2nd Floor, New York, NY 10014, Attn: Prospectus Department; J.P. Morgan       via Broadridge Financial Solutions 1155 Long Island Avenue Edgewood, New York, 11717, Telephone: (866) 803-9204 or by e-mailing prospectus-eq_fi@jpmchase.com ;       Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Prospectus Department       (1-800-221-1037), One Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10010; or RBC       Capital Markets, LLC, Attn: Prospectus Department, 200 Vesey Street, New       York, NY 10281.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the       solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any       sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such       offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or       qualification under the securities laws of any such state or       jurisdiction.
About NRG Yield
NRG Yield owns a diversified portfolio of contracted renewable and       conventional generation and thermal infrastructure assets in the U.S.,       including fossil fuel, solar and wind power generation facilities that       provide the capacity to support more than one million American homes and       businesses. Our thermal infrastructure assets provide steam, hot water       and/or chilled water, and in some instances electricity, to commercial       businesses, universities, hospitals and governmental units in ten       locations.
Forward-Looking Statement
This communication contains forward-looking statements within the       meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are       subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions and typically       can be identified by the use of words such as “expect,” “estimate,”       “should,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “plan,” “guidance,” “believe” and       similar terms. Although NRG Yield, Inc. believes that the expectations       are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will       prove to have been correct, and actual results may vary materially.       Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those       contemplated above include, among others, general economic conditions,       the condition of capital markets generally, and our ability to access       capital markets.
NRG Yield undertakes no obligation to update or revise any       forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,       future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors that could       cause NRG Yield’s actual results to differ materially from those       contemplated in the forward-looking statements included in this news       release should be considered in connection with information regarding       risks and uncertainties that may affect NRG Yield’s future results       included in NRG Yield’s filings with the Securities and Exchange       Commission at www.sec.gov .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150622006338/en/
Morgan        Stanley
