Done
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Dell, HP, Intel, Lenovo and Microsoft are collaborating for the first       time on a joint advertising campaign that showcases the exciting       innovation in today’s newest personal computers (PCs).
The combination of Intel’s best processors ever – 6th Generation Intel®       Core™ processors – Microsoft’s latest Windows operating system – Windows       10 – and some of the thinnest and most innovative designs ever from       Dell, HP and Lenovo was the driving force for these companies to align       around an aspirational and educational message for the PC category.
The six-week campaign, which begins Oct. 19 in the United States and       China, highlights the significant innovation in today’s PCs, prompting       consumers to ask “PC Does What?” and inspiring them to question whether       their current PC can do the same. The integrated campaign will run       across TV, digital and social elements, complemented by native       advertising, to reinforce the advanced capabilities of the modern PC.
PC Does What
Today’s PCs categorically represent a major leap forward for all users,       from mobile workers to gamers, delivering a range of exciting       experiences and significant advancements over older systems. These       include:
Leave the power cord behind – the latest PCs offer true         wireless flexibility with battery power that lets you work         uninterrupted for hours on end;1
Immerse yourself in the game – with higher resolution, better         details and faster frame rates, these new PCs deliver amazing gaming         experiences with up to 30 times better graphics versus a 5-year-old         system;2
Smile and log in – no need to remember a password when you can         log in to the PC with your face using facial recognition;3
Don’t waste time waiting – get tablet-like responsiveness in         the latest 2 in 1 PCs that power on instantly with the touch of a         button.
The campaign’s five TV spots each highlight a different feature that       surprises and delights the consumer. The campaign uses native       advertising to create storylines through editorial and video that will       show, share and personalize PC experiences in a relatable way. The       PCdoeswhat.com microsite serves as the campaign landing page, giving       consumers direct links to the native content and interactive information       about the various PCs and features showcased throughout the campaign.
The joint campaign is designed to complement each company’s respective       fourth quarter marketing efforts and will conclude on Nov. 30.
The new PCs highlighted in the campaign and more are currently on the       market, with more expected to arrive in time for the holidays.
Supporting Quotes
“The possibilities of today’s PCs are endless, but millions of people       are still using outdated systems,” said Karen Quintos, senior vice       president and chief marketing officer at Dell. “For consumers and       business users alike, entirely new benefits and features come standard       in the latest devices. Now is the perfect time to experience what you’ve       been missing.”
“Today’s PCs featuring new designs and innovative form factors reimagine       the promise of personal computing, bringing to life new experiences,”       said Antonio Lucio, chief marketing officer, HP. “HP is excited to join       forces with our partners and counterparts in the industry to tell the       story of personal computing in a way that captures the imagination of       what’s possible.”
“People buy integrated devices comprised of an operating system,       processor and form factor,” said Steven Fund, chief marketing officer,       Intel. “With unprecedented, substantive innovation in the PC category,       it only made sense for us to tell our story together.”
“Collectively, we have made so many innovative strides that the       ‘everyday’ PC experience that people have come to expect has changed       profoundly,” said David Roman, chief marketing officer, Lenovo. “We are       talking revolution, not evolution, to such an extent that we stand       unified in our commitment to educate and excite the market. In       particular, the U.S. and China are the No. 1 and No. 2 PC markets in the       world, and we believe that there are millions of consumers in these       markets who will be interested in what today’s PC can do.”
“Powered by Windows 10, the modern PC has ushered in a new era of       innovation,” said Chris Capossela, executive vice president and chief       marketing officer, Microsoft. “It seems only appropriate that the key       players in this industry rally behind a single campaign to drive       awareness about the innovative hardware and software propelling this       change.”
About Dell, HP, Intel, Lenovo and Microsoft
Dell Inc. listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and       services that give them the power to do more. For more information,       visit http://www.dell.com/ .
HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact       on people, businesses, governments and society. With the broadest       technology portfolio spanning printing, personal systems, software,       services and IT infrastructure, HP delivers solutions for customers'       most complex challenges in every region of the world. More information       about HP ( HPQ ) is available at http://www.hp.com .
Intel ( INTC ) is a world leader in computing innovation. The       company designs and builds the essential technologies that serve as the       foundation for the world’s computing devices. As a leader in corporate       responsibility and sustainability, Intel also manufactures the world’s       first commercially available “conflict-free” microprocessors. Additional       information about Intel is available at newsroom.intel.com and blogs.intel.com ,       and about Intel’s conflict-free efforts at conflictfree.intel.com .
Lenovo (HKSE:992) ( LNVGY ) is a $46 billion global Fortune 500       company and a leader in providing innovative consumer, commercial, and       enterprise technology. Our portfolio of high-quality, secure products       and services covers PCs (including the legendary Think and multimode       YOGA brands), workstations, servers, storage, smart TVs and a family of       mobile products like smartphones (including the Motorola brand), tablets       and apps. Join us on LinkedIn ,       follow us on Facebook or Twitter ( @Lenovo )       or visit us at www.lenovo.com .
Microsoft (Nasdaq “MSFT” @microsoft) is the leading platform and       productivity company for the mobile-first, cloud-first world, and its       mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet       to achieve more.
1 Battery life will vary depending on various factors       including product model, configuration, features, use and power       settings. Battery capacity will naturally decrease with time and usage.       Refer to manufacturer’s individual websites for additional details.
2 Compared to 5-year-old PC. Measured using 3DMark 1.2.0       Cloud Gate for DX 10 graphics subtest. Performance may vary with       configuration and content. Software and workloads used in performance       tests may have been optimized for performance only on Intel       microprocessors. Performance tests, such as SYSmark and MobileMark, are       measured using specific computer systems, components, software,       operations and functions. Any change to any of those factors may cause       the results to vary. You should consult other information and       performance tests to assist you in fully evaluating your contemplated       purchases, including the performance of that product when combined with       other products. For more complete information visit http://www.intel.com/performance .
3 Feature requires Windows 10 and specialized illuminated       infrared camera for facial recognition or iris detection which supports       the Window Biometric Framework.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20151015006526/en/
Information Technology
