Microsoft proposes election of new board members
Vote to be held at annual shareholders meeting.
Microsoft Corp. October 19, 2015 4:50 PM
?
Content preferences
Done
REDMOND, Wash., Oct. 19, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Microsoft Corp. on Monday announced two nominations to its board of directors, Sandra Peterson, group worldwide chairman, Johnson & Johnson, and member of the executive committee, and Padmasree Warrior, former chief strategy officer and chief technology officer at Cisco. Both are accomplished business leaders with significant experience directly relevant to Microsoft's strategic vision and business strategies. They will be presented for election at the company's annual shareholders meeting on Dec. 2, 2015.
View photo
.
Microsoft also announced that Dr. Maria Klawe, president, Harvey Mudd College, has decided not to seek re-election and will leave the board of directors at the expiration of her current term, following the annual shareholders meeting in December.
"We thank Dr. Klawe for her many contributions to the board and her leadership on STEM initiatives over these past six years," said John Thompson, independent board chairman.
"In my six years serving on Microsoft's board, I am proud of the role I've played to help shape Microsoft's business, its leadership and impactful programs," Klawe said. "Now is the right time for me to take a step back from my responsibilities on the board, so that I can take on a larger role in helping to ensure the future of the Claremont University Consortium endowment."
"Sandra and Padmasree both offer strong technology expertise and business experience that will serve as valuable additions to the board," Thompson said.
Peterson, 56, has served as the group worldwide chairman and member of the executive committee of Johnson & Johnson since December 2012. With more than 265 operating companies in more than 60 countries, Johnson & Johnson is the largest and most diversified health care company in the world, with leading consumer health, pharmaceutical and medical device businesses. Peterson previously served as chairman of the board of management of Bayer CropScience AG (a subsidiary of Bayer AG) from 2010 to 2012 and, before that, as a member of Bayer CropScience AG's board of management from July 2010 through September 2010. Before that, Peterson served as executive vice president and president, Medical Care, Bayer HealthCare LLC, from 2005 to 2010, group president of government for Medco Health Solutions Inc. (formerly Merck-Medco) from 2003 to 2004, senior vice president of Medco's health businesses from 2001 through 2003, and senior vice president of marketing for Merck-Medco Managed Care LLC from 1999 to 2001. She serves on the board of Dun & Bradstreet Corp.
Warrior, 54, served as strategic Advisor to Cisco Systems Inc., a leading global networking equipment provider, from June to September 2015. Before that, she was chief technology and strategy officer from July 2012 to June 2015 and served as chief technology officer, senior vice president engineering and general manager global enterprise segment from 2010 to 2012. She joined Cisco in 2008 as the chief technology officer. Before joining Cisco, Warrior served in various executive roles at Motorola Inc., a mobile device and telecommunications company, from 1999 to 2007, most recently as executive vice president and chief technology officer from 2003 to 2007. Warrior currently serves on the board of directors of The Gap Inc., a retail apparel company, and Box Inc., a cloud-based, mobile-optimized enterprise content collaboration platform. 
If elected, Microsoft's board of directors will consist of 11 members including the additions of Peterson and Warrior; John W. Thompson, Microsoft independent chairman and chief executive officer of Virtual Instruments; William H. Gates, Microsoft founder and technology advisor; Teri List-Stoll, executive vice president and chief financial officer of DICK'S Sporting Goods Inc.; G. Mason Morfit, president, ValueAct Capital; Satya Nadella, chief executive officer, Microsoft; Charles H. Noski, former vice chairman of Bank of America Corp.; Dr. Helmut Panke, former chairman of the board of management at BMW AG; Charles W. Scharf, chief executive officer of Visa Inc.; and John W. Stanton, chairman, Trilogy Equity Partners and Trilogy International Partners.
Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT" @microsoft) is the leading platform and productivity company for the mobile-first, cloud-first world, and its mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
