Teachers, faculty and school staff can receive BOGO Chipotle in honor of Teacher Appreciation Day on May 3 View photo  DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Teachers, faculty and school staff who show a valid school ID at Chipotle Mexican Grill (CMG) on May 3, 2016 can take advantage of a special buy-one-get-one free promotion in honor of Teacher Appreciation Day. All eligible people can receive a free burrito, burrito bowl, salad or order of tacos with the purchase of another menu item. The promotion is valid at all U.S. Chipotle locations from 3:00 p.m. to close, local time. This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160425005161/en/ “Teachers are constantly working to cultivate a better world in the classroom and the same goes for our company,” said Chris Arnold, communications director at Chipotle. “Teachers help shape the young minds of their students, planting the seeds of knowledge that will grow forever, and that is something we are happy to recognize and celebrate.” The promotion is valid for educators and staff at all levels, including pre-school, elementary, middle/high school, university and homeschooling parents who present valid identification recognizing them as staff or support on May 3. This promotion is available for in-restaurant orders only and is not valid for online, mobile, fax or catering. Limit one free menu item per teacher customer. For more information, please visit Chipotle.com/teacherappreciation. ABOUT CHIPOTLE Steve Ells, founder, chairman and co-CEO, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of Food With Integrity, Chipotle is seeking better food from using ingredients that are not only fresh, but that — where possible — are sustainably grown and raised responsibly with respect for the animals, the land and the farmers who produce the food. In order to achieve this vision, we focus on building a special people culture that is centered on creating teams of top performers empowered to achieve high standards. This people culture not only leads to a better dining experience for our customers, it also allows us to develop future leaders from within. Chipotle opened with a single restaurant in 1993 and operates more than 2,000 restaurants, including 20 Chipotle restaurants outside the U.S. and 15 ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, and is an investor in an entity that owns and operates three Pizzeria Locale restaurants. For more information, visit Chipotle.com.  View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160425005161/en/ MULTIMEDIA AVAILABLE:http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160425005161/en/