Compare Brokers
Chipotle Commits $10 Million to Help Local Farmers
Chipotle provides education, training and financial assistance to help small and medium-sized growers meet new food safety standards
Chipotle February 8, 2016 5:23 PM
?
Done
DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Chipotle Mexican Grill ( CMG ) announced today at its national       employee meeting the formation of the Chipotle Local Grower Support       Initiative, a new program to help smaller, local suppliers meet its       heightened food safety standards. Supporting local farmers has been an       important part of the company’s commitment to Food With Integrity, and       Chipotle plans to commit up to $10 million to help local farms meet its       food safety standards and to make more local ingredients available       across the country.
“We have supported local farms around the country for a number of years       because we believe it is the right thing to do,” said Steve Ells,       Chipotle founder, co-CEO, and chairman. “We recognize that it may make       it difficult for some local farms to comply with our heightened       standards, but we are looking to help local farmers comply with our       standards and to continue our support for local farms and rural       communities around the country.”
The initiative will provide the support and education necessary to meet       the company’s high standards and help offset the costs of enhanced       testing and food safety practices for some smaller farmers.       Additionally, financial assistance will be provided in the form of       grants or premiums to help cover the higher costs of enhanced food       safety practices. The company will also look to develop new partnerships       and seek out farmers using greenhouses and other technologies around the       country that meet Chipotle’s food safety standards.
For more information about the Chipotle Local Grower Initiative and the       company’s commitment to food safety, visit       Chipotle.com/localgrowersupport.
ABOUT CHIPOTLE
Steve Ells, founder, chairman and co-CEO, started Chipotle with the idea       that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast-food experience.       Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos,       burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from       fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking       methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of       Food With Integrity, Chipotle is seeking better food from using       ingredients that are not only fresh, but that — where possible — are       sustainably grown and raised responsibly with respect for the animals,       the land and the farmers who produce the food. In order to achieve this       vision, we focus on building a special people culture that is centered       on creating teams of top performers empowered to achieve high standards.       This people culture not only leads to a better dining experience for our       customers, it also allows us to develop future leaders from within.       Chipotle opened with a single restaurant in 1993 and operates more than       2,000 restaurants, including 18 Chipotle restaurants outside the U.S.       and 13 ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, and is an investor       in an entity that owns and operates three Pizzeria Locale restaurants.       For more information, visit Chipotle.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160208006385/en/
Consumer Discretionary
