DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ( CMG ) today announced that the Company will present at an upcoming investor conference.
On Wednesday, March 16, 2016, the Company is scheduled to present at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Consumer and Retail Tech Conference at 10:30 am Eastern Time. The conference is hosted at the Lotte New York Palace Hotel in New York City. The presentation will be webcast live from the Company’s website at chipotle.com under the investor relations section. Archived webcasts will be available after the conclusion of the presentation.
About Chipotle
Steve Ells, founder, chairman and co-CEO, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of Food With Integrity, Chipotle is seeking better food from using ingredients that are not only fresh, but that — where possible — are sustainably grown and raised responsibly with respect for the animals, the land, and the farmers who produce the food. In order to achieve this vision, we focus on building a special people culture that is centered on creating teams of top performers empowered to achieve high standards. This people culture not only leads to a better dining experience for our customers, it also allows us to develop future leaders from within. Chipotle opened with a single restaurant in 1993 and operates more than 2,000 restaurants, including 20 Chipotle restaurants outside the U.S. and 13 ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, and is an investor in an entity that owns and operates three Pizzeria Locale restaurants. For more information, visit Chipotle.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160314005582/en/
Consumer Discretionary