Deadline in Lawsuit for Investors in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) Shares Announced by Shareholders Foundation
Shareholders Foundation, Inc. January 19, 2016 9:30 AM
Content preferences
Done
SAN DIEGO, Jan.  19, 2016  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Shareholders Foundation, Inc. announces that a lawsuit was filed in New York on behalf of certain purchasers of shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ( CMG ) over alleged Securities Laws Violations by Chipotle Mexican Grill.
Investors who purchased shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ( CMG ) have certain options and for certain investors are short and strict deadlines running. Deadline: March 8, 2016. NYSE:CMG investors should contact the Shareholders Foundation at mail@shareholdersfoundation.com  or call +1(858) 779-1554.
The plaintiff claims that defendants made certain allegedly false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that Chipotle Mexican Grill’s quality controls were not in compliance with applicable consumer and workplace safety regulations, that Chipotle Mexican Grill’s quality controls were inadequate to safeguard consumer and employee health, and as a result of the foregoing, Chipotle Mexican Grill’s public statements were materially false and misleading at all relevant times.
Between August 19 and September 3, 2015, more than 60 people fell ill after dining at Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. restaurants in Minnesota. On September 17, 2015, the Minnesota Department of Health announced that the illnesses were salmonella linked to tomatoes consumed at 22 Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. locations.
On or around November 1, 2015, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. closed all of its restaurants in Portland, Oregon and Seattle, Washington, following reports of approximately 20 cases of E. coli by Chipotle patrons.
On December 7, 2015, post-market, Boston College announced that several of its students had complained of gastrointestinal symptoms after eating at a Chipotle restaurant in Brighton, Massachusetts. On December 9, 2015, health officials confirmed that the students had contracted norovirus.
On January 6, 2016, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. announced that it was served in December 2015 with a federal grand jury subpoena as part of a criminal investigation tied to a norovirus outbreak the previous summer at one of its restaurants in California. The investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California in conjunction with the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).
Those who purchased Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ( CMG ) shares have certain options and should contact the Shareholders Foundation, Inc. by e-mail at mail@shareholdersfoundation.com  or call +1 (858) 779-1554.
The Shareholders Foundation, Inc. is a professional portfolio legal monitoring and a settlement claim filing service, which does research related to shareholder issues and informs investors of securities class actions, settlements, judgments, and other legal related news to the stock/financial market. The Shareholders Foundation, Inc. is not a law firm. The information is provided as a public service. It is not intended as legal advice and should not be relied upon.
Company Legal & Law Matters
