INVESTOR ALERT: Brower Piven Encourages Shareholders Who Have Losses in Excess of $100,000 from Investment in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. to Contact Brower Piven before the Lead Plaintiff Deadline in Class Action Lawsuit
Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation January 19, 2016 5:31 PM
?
Done
STEVENSON, Md.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
The securities litigation law firm of Brower Piven, A Professional       Corporation, announces that a class action lawsuit has been commenced in       the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York       on behalf of purchasers of Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ( CMG )       (“Chipotle” or the “Company”) securities during the period between       February 4, 2015 and January 5, 2016, inclusive (the “Class Period”).       Investors who wish to become proactively involved in the litigation have       until March 8, 2016 to seek appointment as lead plaintiff.
If you have suffered a loss from investment in Chipotle securities       purchased on or after February 4, 2015 and held through the revelation       of negative information during and/or at the end of the Class Period, as       described below, and would like to learn more about this lawsuit and       your ability to participate as a lead plaintiff, without cost or       obligation to you, please visit our website at http://www.browerpiven.com/currentsecuritiescases.html .       You may also request more information by contacting Brower Piven either       by email at hoffman@browerpiven.com or by telephone at (410) 415-6616. No class has yet been certified in       the above action. Members of the Class will be represented by the lead       plaintiff and counsel chosen by the lead plaintiff.
If you wish to choose counsel to represent you and the Class, you must       apply to be appointed lead plaintiff and be selected by the Court. The       lead plaintiff will direct the litigation and participate in important       decisions including whether to accept a settlement for the Class in the       action. The lead plaintiff will be selected from among applicants       claiming the largest loss from investment in Company securities during       the Class Period. Brower Piven also encourages anyone with       information regarding the Company’s conduct during the period in       question to contact the firm, including whistleblowers, former       employees, shareholders and others.
The complaint accuses the defendants of violations of the Securities       Exchange Act of 1934 by virtue of the defendants’ failure to disclose       during the Class Period that Chipotle’s quality controls were not in       compliance with applicable consumer and workplace safety regulations and       inadequate to safeguard consumer and employee health.
According to the complaint, following: (1) the August 5, 2015 disclosure       that approximately 100 patrons and employees of a Chipotle restaurant in       Simi Valley, California became ill; (2) the September 4, 2015       announcement by the Ventura County Environmental Health Division that       the illnesses were a norovirus outbreak and that the restaurant in       question contained dirty and inoperative equipment, equipment directly       linked to the sewer, and other sanitary and health violations; (3) the       disclosure that between August 19 and September 3, 2015, approximately       64 people fell ill after dining at Chipotle restaurants in Minnesota       announced on September 17, 2015 by the Minnesota Department of Health       that the illnesses were salmonella linked to tomatoes consumed at 22       Chipotle locations; (4) the disclosure that on or around November 1,       2015, Chipotle closed all of its restaurants in Portland, Oregon and       Seattle, Washington, following reports of approximately 20 cases of E.       coli by Chipotle patrons; (5) the disclosure that beginning on or around       December 2, 2015, more than 140 Boston College students fell ill after       dining at a Chipotle restaurant in Brighton, Massachusetts after which       on December 9, 2015, health officials confirmed that the students had       contracted norovirus; and (6) the January 6, 2016 announcement that the       Company was served in December 2015 with a federal grand jury subpoena as part of a criminal investigation tied to the previous summer’s       norovirus outbreak at the Company’s restaurant in Simi Valley and that       the investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for       the Central District of California in conjunction with the Food and Drug       Administration, the value of Chipotle shares declined significantly.
Attorneys at Brower Piven have extensive experience in litigating       securities and other class action cases and have been advocating for the       rights of shareholders since the 1980s. If you choose to retain counsel,       you may retain Brower Piven without financial obligation or cost to you,       or you may retain other counsel of your choice. You need take no action       at this time to be a member of the class.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160119006910/en/
Company Legal & Law Matters
