INVESTOR ALERT: The Law Offices of Vincent Wong Remind Investors of Class Action Involving Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. and a Lead Plaintiff Deadline of March 8, 2016 - CMG
The Law Offices of Vincent Wong February 2, 2016 11:34 AM
Content preferences
Done
NEW YORK, Feb.  02, 2016  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Law Offices of Vincent Wong announce that a class action lawsuit has been commenced in the USDC for the Southern District of New York on behalf of investors who purchased Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. ( CMG ) securities between February 4, 2015 and January 5, 2016.
Click here to learn about the case: http://docs.wongesq.com/CMG-Info-Request-Form-1050 . There is no cost or obligation to you.
The complaint alleges that throughout the Class Period, defendants made materially false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) Chipotle’s quality controls were not in compliance with applicable consumer and workplace safety regulations; (ii) Chipotle’s quality controls were inadequate to safeguard consumer and employee health; and (iii) as a result of the foregoing, Chipotle’s public statements were materially false and misleading at all relevant times.
On January 6, 2016, Chipotle announced that it had been served with a federal subpoena following August 2014’s criminal investigation of a dangerous norovirus outbreak at one of its restaurants. This disclosure follows an E. coli outbreak linked to Chipotle restaurants in late October and November 2015, and a separate norovirus outbreak at a location in Massachusetts.
If you suffered a loss in Chipotle you have until March 8, 2016 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn’t require that you serve as a lead plaintiff. To obtain additional information, contact Vincent Wong, Esq. either via email vw@wongesq.com , by telephone at 212.425.1140, or visit http://docs.wongesq.com/CMG-Info-Request-Form-1050 .
Vincent Wong, Esq. is an experienced attorney that has represented investors in securities litigations involving financial fraud and violations of shareholder rights.  Attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee similar outcomes.
Company Legal & Law Matters
