Chipotle ‘Guac Hunter’ Experience Rewards Players with Free Chips and Guacamole
Digital photo hunt challenges players for a chance to win free chips and guac
Chipotle March 21, 2016 9:30 AM
?
.
View photo
Guac Hunter challenges players for a chance to win free chips and guac. (Photo: Business Wire) Multimedia …
DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Chipotle Mexican Grill ( CMG ) in partnership with Avocados From Mexico announced today a new online game called Guac Hunter — a digital photo hunt where users see a series of two images that look similar and have to spot the differences before time runs out.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160321005641/en/
Players are rewarded for their keen eyesight with a mobile offer good for a free order of chips and guacamole at any Chipotle in the US or Canada. Users may play Guac Hunter anytime March 21 to March 31 while supplies last, with all offers expiring April 10, 2016.
“For many of our customers, guacamole is one of their favorite menu items, and a meal at Chipotle isn’t complete without it,” said Mark Crumpacker, chief creative and development officer at Chipotle. “Great guacamole begins with great avocados, and we source the best ingredients to ensure every serving of guacamole is as good as it can be. This game allows our customers to enjoy some chips and guac on us, and perhaps encourage others to give our guac a try and see what they’ve been missing.”
Chipotle’s guacamole is made from scratch throughout the day. Each batch is hand-mashed and seasoned with freshly diced red onions, jalapeno peppers, cilantro, citrus juice and salt. Each of Chipotle’s 2,000-plus restaurants goes through approximately five cases of avocados a day, amounting to more than 44,000 pounds of avocados in each restaurant annually. Last year the company served more than 43 million pounds of avocados from Mexico; the company sources exclusively from Mexico in certain months to ensure the taste and quality of its guacamole is the absolute best. Chipotle also buys avocados from California, Chile and Peru based on peak growing seasons.
“Avocados From Mexico is excited to partner with Chipotle this month to celebrate our always fresh, great-tasting avocados,” said Alvaro Luque, president of Avocados From Mexico. “Guacamole is the perfect complement to burritos, bowls and salads, and we are thrilled to team up with Chipotle to provide free guacamole to their customers across the country.”
To learn more and play Guac Hunter, please visit chipotle.com/guachunter. To access Chipotle’s signature guacamole recipe, visit chipotle.com/guac-recipe.
ABOUT CHIPOTLE
Steve Ells, founder, chairman and co-CEO, started Chipotle with the idea that food served fast did not have to be a typical fast food experience. Today, Chipotle continues to offer a focused menu of burritos, tacos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla) and salads made from fresh, high-quality raw ingredients, prepared using classic cooking methods and served in a distinctive atmosphere. Through our vision of Food With Integrity, Chipotle is seeking better food from using ingredients that are not only fresh, but that — where possible — are sustainably grown and raised responsibly with respect for the animals, the land and the farmers who produce the food. In order to achieve this vision, we focus on building a special people culture that is centered on creating teams of top performers empowered to achieve high standards. This people culture not only leads to a better dining experience for our customers, it also allows us to develop future leaders from within. Chipotle opened with a single restaurant in 1993 and operates more than 2,000 restaurants, including 20 Chipotle restaurants outside the U.S. and 15 ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants, and is an investor in an entity that owns and operates three Pizzeria Locale restaurants. For more information, visit Chipotle.com .
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160321005641/en/