Compare Brokers
Robertson & Associates, LLP Files Class Action Against Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. Alleging Norovirus Outbreak Sickened Hundreds
Customers of Chipotle's Simi Valley Restaurant Allege Chipotle Delayed Notifying County Health Officials of Outbreak Until It Disposed of Evidence of Foodborne Illness Outbreak
Robertson & Associates, LLP January 19, 2016 4:35 PM
?
Alex "Trey" Robertson, IV (Photo: Business Wire)  Multimedia Gallery URL
LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
On January 19, 2015, Robertson & Associates, LLP filed a class action       lawsuit against Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ( CMG ) for allegedly       allowing its Kitchen Manager to work for two days while sick with       gastrointestinal symptoms, infecting potentially thousands of customers       from its Simi Valley restaurant with the highly infectious Norovirus       between August 18-19, 2015. A joint investigation conducted by Ventura       County Environmental Health and Public Health Divisions concluded that       Norovirus was the cause of this foodborne illness outbreak, which caused       at least 234 people to become sick with vomiting, diarrhea, headache,       fever and stomach pain. According to county health officials, Chipotle       served a total of 3,000 entrees during this two day period, so the total       number of customers who suffered gastrointestinal illness is likely       higher than the 234 who reported their symptoms to health officials.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160119006866/en/
The Plaintiffs in this class action are six (6) high school students and       one (1) parent who all purchased and consumed food adulterated with       Norovirus at Chipotle's Simi Valley restaurant, located at 1263 Simi       Town Center Way, Simi Valley, CA. The Plaintiffs seek to represent all       customers who suffered gastrointestinal illness from eating food       contaminated with Norovirus spread by sick Chipotle employees at its       Simi Valley restaurant between August 18-20, 2015.
On January 6, 2016, Chipotle filed a Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities       and Exchange Commission disclosing, "In December 2015, Chipotle was       served with a Federal Grand Jury Subpoena from the U.S. District Court       for the Central District of California in connection with an official       criminal investigation being conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for       the Central District of California, in conjunction with the U.S. Food       and Drug Administration's Office of Criminal Investigations The subpoena       requires us to produce a broad range of documents related to a Chipotle       restaurant in Simi Valley, California, that experienced an isolated       norovirus incident during August 2015."
Alex “Trey” Robertson, IV, Esq. is an experienced trial lawyer who holds       an AV-Preeminent rating from Martindale-Hubbell, the highest peer-review       rating given only to those lawyers who demonstrate the highest level of       ethical standards and legal ability. Alex also has been named a “Super       Lawyer” for Southern California from 2011-2015. In 2014, he received       “The Litigator Award” from the Trial Lawyers Board of Regents, a       distinction given to only 1% of all attorneys, based upon verified       settlement and verdict amounts. Alex is admitted to practice in       California, Nevada, Colorado and Texas.
Mr. Robertson is no stranger to handling class actions cases, which have       also involved criminal investigations by the U.S. Food and Drug       Administration. Between 2011 and the present, Mr. Robertson represented       clients in numerous wrongful death cases and a separate class action       against 1 800 GET THIN, which is currently the subject of an ongoing       criminal investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office in conjunction with       the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Office of Criminal       Investigations.
Alex has handled numerous high profile toxic tort cases, including those       for celebrities Ed McMahon, Erin Brockovich, Ted Nugent, Vin Scully       (L.A. Dodger’s announcer) and other celebrities, professional athletes       and public figures. Many of his cases have been featured in local and       national media, including CBS News “48 Hours” (twice), CBS News “The       Early Show”, ABC News “Prime Time Live”, NBC News “Today Show”, New York       Times Sunday Magazine, The Wall Street Journal, ABA Journal, Forbes       Magazine and CNN’s “Lou Dobbs” show.
With over 30 years of experience as a trial lawyer, Mr. Robertson has       recovered more than $300,000,000 for consumers in consumer class actions.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160119006866/en/
