Content preferences
Done
SPOKANE, WA--(Marketwired - July 15, 2015) - Avista Utilities, a regulated utility business of Avista Corp. ( AVA ), has released "The Power of Shared Value," its 2015 corporate responsibility and sustainability report. This is the seventh report on Avista's operations. The content builds on the G-3 and Electric Utility Supplement guidelines of the international Global Reporting Initiative.
"During a time when the utility industry is changing and evolving, our stakeholders want a transparent view into our business. This report provides a comprehensive look at our operations and highlights those areas our stakeholders have told us they care about most," said Dennis Vermillion, president of Avista Utilities. "Through this report, information about our company is easily accessible and relevant, so readers can understand the utility and our approach to creating shared value for our business and for those that we serve."
Key highlights of the report include:
Piloting energy storage batteries to help us understand how to best integrate renewable power into the electric grid;
Enhancements in community outreach programs on natural gas safety;
Avista's first Community Academy, giving community leaders the opportunity to better understand the utility industry and learn about their role in shaping our energy future;
Avista's green fleet and the use of compressed natural gas as an alternative fuel for fleet vehicles;
The development and implementation of a region-wide entrepreneurial ecosystem to build pathways to support resources and learning opportunities for entrepreneurs, who are driving economic vitality in the Inland Northwest.
The Shared Value Report is published online for convenient viewing at avistautilities.com , key word: Shared Value.
About Avista
Avista Corp. is an energy company involved in the production, transmission and distribution of energy as well as other energy-related businesses. Avista Utilities is our operating division that provides electric service to 369,000 customers and natural gas to 329,000 customers. Its service territory covers 30,000 square miles in eastern Washington, northern Idaho and parts of southern and eastern Oregon, with a population of 1.6 million. Alaska Energy and Resources Company is an Avista subsidiary that provides retail electric service in the city and borough of Juneau, Alaska, through its subsidiary Alaska Electric Light and Power Company . Avista stock is traded under the ticker symbol "AVA." For more information about Avista, please visit www.avistacorp.com .
Utility Industry
