Cash America Announces Fourth Quarter Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations Per Share up 16%
Cash America International, Inc. January 29, 2015 6:00 AM
?
Done
FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cash America International, Inc. ( CSH ) announced today that   reported net income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter   ended December 31, 2014 was $7,492,000 (26 cents per share) up 8% from   net income per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter   of 2013 of $7,309,000 (24 cents per share). The comparison is before   consideration of the unusual items that affected financial results in   both periods. During the fourth quarter of 2014, management implemented   administrative reorganization plans that generated $879,000 in after-tax   expenses (3 cents per share) to create efficiencies in its lending   operations management. Excluding the unusual expense item discussed   above, adjusted net income from continuing operations, a non-GAAP   measure, would have been $8,371,000 (29 cents per share) for the fourth   quarter ended December 31, 2014, which is up 16% to the comparable   adjusted net income per share from continuing operations, a non-GAAP   measure, for the fourth quarter of 2013, that included an aggregate   after-tax net expense of $320,000 (1 cent per share) from multiple   unusual items, including a small amount for the early extinguishment of   debt. Adjusted net income from continuing operations, a non-GAAP   measure, was $7,629,000 (25 cents per share) for the fourth quarter of   2013. Details of the adjustments for all periods are provided in the   attachment to this release.
Total revenue during the fourth quarter of 2014 increased 7% to $289.4   million compared to $271.0 million during the same period in 2013. Net   revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2014 decreased slightly   to $151.7 million from $152.4 million in the same period of 2013, as   growth in pawn-related net revenue was offset by lower net fees from   unsecured consumer loans.
Commenting on the results for the fourth quarter, Daniel R. Feehan,   President and Chief Executive Officer said, “Retail sales in our pawn   locations posted an increase of 16% during the important holiday selling   season, which was our primary objective coming into the quarter. While I   am pleased with the growth in net earnings in the fourth quarter   compared to the prior year, a lot of the progress is obscured by our   strategic decision to de-emphasize unsecured consumer loans in our   business, which impacted our year-over-year net revenue comparison for   the quarter. When excluding net fees from consumer loans and gross   profit on the disposition of scrap gold and diamonds, same store net   revenue from pawn-related activities was up 3.7% in the fourth quarter   of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.”
For the year ended December 31, 2014, total revenue increased 6% to $1.1   billion for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $1.0 billion   for the same period in 2013. The Company reported a net loss from   continuing operations of $10.4 million (36 cents per share) compared to   net income of $59.2 million ($1.93 per share) for the fiscal years ended   2014 and 2013, respectively. However, both periods were heavily   influenced by unusual items. Excluding unusual items, including costs   related to the early extinguishment of debt, during the year ended 2014   that totaled $25.8 million (87 cents per share), adjusted net income   from continuing operations, a non-GAAP measure, for the year ended   December 31, 2014 would have been $15.4 million (51 cents per share).   This compares to adjusted net income from continuing operations, a   non-GAAP measure, of $37.9 million ($1.23 per share) for the year ended   December 31, 2013, which excludes a net benefit after taxes of $21.3   million (70 cents per share) from multiple unusual items in the prior   year. Details of the adjustments are provided in the attachment to this   release.
Cash America will conduct a conference call to discuss its fourth   quarter earnings on Thursday, January 29, 2015, at 7:00 AM CST. A live   web cast of the call will be available on the Company’s corporate web   site in the Investor Relations section ( www.cashamerica.com ).   To listen to the live call, please go to the web site at least fifteen   minutes early to register, download, and install any necessary audio   software.
Outlook for the First Quarter of 2015 and the   2015 Fiscal Year
Management believes that the opportunities for sustained growth in   revenue and earnings will be largely associated with the customer demand   for the credit products provided by the Company, which primarily take   the form of pawn loans and, to a much lesser extent, consumer loans.   Other elements expected to affect the growth in revenue include the   Company’s ability to grow pawn loan balances and its ability to   profitably liquidate merchandise primarily from unredeemed pawn loans.   Based on the preceding factors management estimates the first quarter of   fiscal 2015 net income from continuing operations per share to be   between 20 cents and 30 cents. The net income per share from continuing   operations for the first quarter ended March 31, 2014 was $3.2 million   (11 cents per share), which included $1.0 million (3 cents per share) in   expenses primarily related to the early extinguishment of debt and $0.2   million (1 cent per share) related to a litigation settlement. Excluding   the impact of these after-tax adjustments, adjusted diluted net income   per share from continuing operations, a non-GAAP measure, would have   been 15 cents per share for the first quarter of 2014.
At this time management adjusts its previously reported expectations for   its fiscal year 2015 adjusted EBITDA to an anticipated range of between   $110 to $125 million, which management estimates will generate between   80 cents and $1.10 in net income per share from continuing operations.   This compares to a reported net loss from continuing operations of 36   cents per share that included unusual items, including expenses for the   early extinguishment of debt during the year ended 2014 that totaled 87   cents per share. Adding back the 87 cents incurred during 2014, adjusted   net income from continuing operations, a non-GAAP measure, for the year   ended December 31, 2014 would have been 51 cents per share.
About the Company
As of December 31, 2014, Cash America International, Inc. (the   “Company”) operated 943 total locations offering specialty financial   services to consumers, which included the following:
859 lending locations in 21 states in the United States primarily   under the names “Cash America Pawn,” “SuperPawn,” “Cash America Payday   Advance,” and “Cashland;” and
84 check cashing centers (all of which are unconsolidated franchised   check cashing centers) operating in 12 states in the United States   under the name “Mr. Payroll.”
For additional information regarding Cash America International, Inc.   visit its website located at www.cashamerica.com .
Non-GAAP Measures
The “Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share,” “Adjusted   EBITDA,” and the “Estimated Adjusted EBITDA for 2015” sections included   in the attachments to this press release contain a reconciliation of   non-GAAP information and a discussion of the reasons why the Company’s   management believes that presentation of non-GAAP financial measures   provide useful information to investors regarding the Company’s   financial condition and results of operations.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private   Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release contains forward-looking statements about the business,   financial condition, operations and prospects of the Company. The actual   results of the Company could differ materially from those indicated by   the forward-looking statements because of various risks and   uncertainties including, without limitation: the effect of, compliance   with or changes in domestic pawn, consumer credit, tax and other laws   and governmental rules and regulations applicable to the Company’s   business or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof; the   regulatory and examination authority of the Consumer Financial   Protection Bureau, including the effect of and compliance with a consent   order the Company entered into with the Consumer Financial Protection   Bureau in November 2013; risks related to the separation of the Company   and Enova International, Inc.; a claim relating to the terms of the   Company’s 5.75% senior notes; the actions of third parties who provide,   acquire or offer products and services to, from or for the Company;   public and regulatory perception of the Company’s business, including   its consumer loan business and its business practices; the effect of any   current or future litigation proceedings or any judicial decisions or   rule-making that affect the Company, its products or its arbitration   agreements; fluctuations, including a sustained decrease, in the price   of gold or deterioration in economic conditions; a prolonged   interruption in the Company’s operations of its facilities, systems and   business functions, including its information technology and other   business systems; changes in demand for the Company’s services and   changes in competition; impairment risk related to the Company’s   goodwill and intangible assets; the Company’s ability to attract and   retain qualified executive officers; the ability of the Company to open   new locations in accordance with its plans or to successfully integrate   newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations; interest rate   fluctuations; changes in the capital markets, including the debt and   equity markets; changes in the Company’s ability to satisfy its debt   obligations or to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain new   capital to finance growth; security breaches, cyber-attacks or   fraudulent activity; acts of God, war or terrorism, pandemics and other   events; the effect of any of such changes on the Company’s business or   the markets in which it operates; and other risks and uncertainties   indicated in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange   Commission. These risks and uncertainties are beyond the ability of the   Company to control, nor can the Company predict, in many cases, all of   the risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to   differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking   statements. When used in this release, terms such as “believes,”   “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “plans,” “expects,”   “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “projects” and similar expressions   and variations as they relate to the Company or its management are   intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims   any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking   statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date   of this release.
 
