Cash America Announces Chief Executive Officer Successor
Cash America International, Inc. September 30, 2015 6:55 AM
?
Done
FORT WORTH, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Cash America International, Inc. (the “Company”) ( CSH ) announced       today that its Board of Directors has selected Mr. T. Brent Stuart, the       Company’s current President and Chief Operating Officer, to become the       Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, effective November 1,       2015 following the previously announced retirement of Mr. Daniel R.       Feehan, the Company’s current Chief Executive Officer, on October 31,       2015.
Mr. Stuart joined the Company in November 2008, and prior to serving in       his current role as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer,       Mr. Stuart served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief       Operating Officer from January 2015 – April 2015, as the Senior Vice       President – Operations for the Company’s U.S. retail services storefront       lending business from July 2010 to January 2015 and as Regional Vice       President from November 2008 to July 2010. Prior to joining the Company,       Mr. Stuart held various senior leadership roles in the financial       services industry.
Commenting on the promotion of Mr. Stuart to President and Chief       Executive Officer, Mr. James H. Graves, Chairman of the Chief Executive       Officer Search Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors said,       “During his tenure at the Company, Brent Stuart has demonstrated success       with the key characteristics the Board was seeking in a successor to Mr.       Feehan. He has proven to be a respected leader throughout the       organization with high standards for integrity, fairness, transparency       and accountability. Brent possesses a deep understanding of our business       model and strong business and financial acumen and has impressed the       Board with both his action-oriented execution skills and his strategic       thinking abilities and vision. We are extremely excited about the future       of our Company under Brent’s leadership.”
On his appointment as the Company’s next Chief Executive Officer, Mr. T.       Brent Stuart said, “I am honored that the Board has asked me to serve as       the Company’s next Chief Executive Officer. I look forward to continuing       to build on the growth and success Cash America has seen under Dan       Feehan’s tremendous, long-standing leadership. I am also very pleased       that during this important transition period the Company and our       management team will continue to have access to Mr. Feehan’s invaluable       experience and advice in his role as our Company’s Executive Chairman.”
As previously announced, Mr. Feehan will remain employed by the Company       until April 30, 2020, serving in a non-officer advisory role following       his retirement from the role of Chief Executive Officer on October 31,       2015. Mr. Feehan will remain on the Company’s Board of Directors       following his retirement and will serve as Executive Chairman of the       Board from November 1, 2015 through October 31, 2016 and then will serve       as the non-executive Chairman of the Board from November 1, 2016 through       April 30, 2020, subject to his re-election to the Company’s Board each       year by the Company’s shareholders. Jack Daugherty, the Company’s       founder and current Chairman of the Board, will continue to serve as       Chairman until November 1, 2015, at which time he will step down as       Chairman but will continue to serve on the Board.
About the Company
As of June 30, 2015 Cash America International, Inc. (the “Company”)       operated 904 total locations offering specialty financial services to       consumers, which included the following:
826 lending locations in 20 states in the United States primarily         under the names “Cash America Pawn,” “SuperPawn,” “Cash America Payday         Advance,” and “Cashland;” and
78 check cashing centers (all of which are unconsolidated franchised         check cashing centers) operating in 12 states in the United States         under the name “Mr. Payroll.”
For additional information regarding the Company and the services it       provides, visit the Company’s website located at: http://www.cashamerica.com or its mobile app, which may be downloaded without cost from the App       Store? and on Google Play™. *App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.       and Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc.
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private       Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This release contains forward-looking statements about the business,       financial condition, operations and prospects of the Company. The actual       results of the Company could differ materially from those indicated by       the forward-looking statements because of various risks and       uncertainties including, without limitation: the effect of, compliance       with or changes in laws, rules and regulations applicable to the       Company's business or changes in the interpretation or enforcement       thereof; the regulatory and examination authority of the Consumer       Financial Protection Bureau, including the effect of and compliance with       a consent order the Company entered into with the Consumer Financial       Protection Bureau in November 2013; accounting and income tax risks       related to goodwill and other intangible asset impairment, certain tax       positions taken by the Company and other accounting matters that require       the judgment of management; the Company’s ability to attract and retain       qualified executive officers; the effect of any current or future       litigation proceedings, including an unfavorable outcome in an       outstanding lawsuit relating to the Company’s 5.75% Senior Notes due       2018 even though the Company believes the lawsuit is without merit and       will vigorously defend its position, and any judicial decisions or       rule-making that affects the Company, its products or the legality or       enforceability of its arbitration agreements; decreased demand for the       Company’s products and services and changes in competition; fluctuations       in the price of gold and changes in economic conditions; public       perception of the Company’s business and the Company’s business       practices; risks related to the Company’s financing, such as compliance       with financial covenants in the Company’s debt agreements, the Company’s       ability to satisfy its outstanding debt obligations, to refinance       existing debt obligations or to obtain new capital; risks related to       interruptions to the Company’s business operations, such as a prolonged       interruption in the Company’s operations of its facilities, systems or       business functions, cyber-attacks or security breaches or the actions of       third parties who provide, acquire or offer products and services to,       from or for the Company; risks related to the expansion and growth of       the Company’s business, including the Company’s ability to open new       locations in accordance with plans or to successfully integrate newly       acquired businesses into its operations; risks related to the 2014       spin-off of the Company’s former E-Commerce Division that comprised its       e-commerce segment, Enova International, Inc.; fluctuations in the price       of the Company’s common stock; the effect of any of the above changes on       the Company’s business or the markets in which the Company operates; and       other risks and uncertainties indicated in the Company’s filings with       the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and uncertainties       are beyond the ability of the Company to control, nor can the Company       predict, in many cases, all of the risks and uncertainties that could       cause its actual results to differ materially from those indicated by       the forward-looking statements. When used in this release, terms such as       “believes,” “estimates,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “plans,” “expects,”       “intends,” “anticipates,” “may,” “forecasts,” “projects” and similar       expressions and variations as they relate to the Company or its       management are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The       Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any       forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring       after the date of this release.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150930005230/en/
Chief Executive Officer
