B&G Foods to Present at Investor Conferences in September
B&G Foods, Inc. September 1, 2015 8:10 PM
?
Done
PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
B&G Foods, Inc. ( BGS ) announced today that the Company will be       presenting at the following investor conferences in September:
On Tuesday, September 8, 2015, the Company will present at the         Barclays Global Consumer Staples Conference at the InterContinental         Boston in Boston, Massachusetts. The presentation will begin at 1:30         p.m. Eastern Time.
On Tuesday, September 29, 2015, the Company will present at the         Deutsche Bank 23rd Annual Leveraged Finance Conference at         The Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona. The presentation will begin at         4:55 p.m. Mountain Time.
Investors and interested parties may listen to the live webcasts of       these presentations by visiting the investor relations section of the       Company’s website at http://ir.bgfoods.com at the appropriate times. Replays of the webcasts will be available       following the conclusion of the presentations.
About B&G Foods, Inc.
B&G Foods and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute a       diversified portfolio of high-quality, branded shelf-stable foods across       the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Based in Parsippany,       New Jersey, B&G Foods’ products are marketed under many recognized       brands, including Ac’cent, B&G, B&M, Baker’s       Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary’s, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril’s, Grandma’s       Molasses, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, MacDonald’s, Mama Mary’s, Maple Grove Farms, Molly       McButter, Mrs. Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate’s Booty, Polaner, Red Devil, Regina, Rickland Orchards, Sa-són, Sclafani, Smart       Puffs, Spring Tree, Sugar Twin, Trappey’s, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid and Wright’s. B&G Foods       also sells and distributes Static Guard, a household product       brand.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150901006773/en/
Consumer Discretionary
