B&G Foods Announces Strategic Partnership with DSC Logistics
DSC Logistics to Provide Logistics Services for B&G Foods’ Distribution Centers
B&G Foods, Inc. May 29, 2015 4:01 PM
?
Done
PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
B&G Foods, Inc. ( BGS ) announced today that it has entered into a five-year logistics services agreement with DSC Logistics, a leading       logistics and supply chain management company. Pursuant to the       agreement, DSC will provide all warehousing and distribution management       services at B&G Foods’ three primary distribution centers after the       distribution centers are transitioned over the next three to nine months.
Robert C. Cantwell, President and Chief Executive Officer of B&G Foods,       stated, “We are excited to partner with DSC Logistics. DSC’s       capabilities and experience providing logistics services in the food       industry make them an excellent choice to help us improve customer       service and ensure that our warehousing and distribution systems are       well-equipped to support our acquisition strategy and expected future       growth. In addition, we expect to begin realizing cost benefits from       this arrangement during the second half of 2016.”
“B&G Foods has awarded DSC Logistics the logistics management of its       distribution centers because of DSC’s track record of excellent service,       our collaborative approach and B&G Foods’ confidence in our ability to       execute,” remarked Ann Drake, Chief Executive Officer of DSC Logistics.       “We look forward to working with B&G Foods, and are committed to helping       B&G Foods achieve its business goals and future growth objectives.”
About DSC Logistics, Inc.
DSC Logistics is a leader in transforming logistics and supply chain       management into a critical business strategy based on collaborative       partnerships, innovative thinking, and high-performance operations. DSC       achieves the business goals of Fortune 500 and other dynamic companies       by designing, integrating, managing and adapting customized supply chain       solutions. As a Lead Logistics Partner (LLP) and third-party logistics       (3PL) provider, DSC delivers value by reducing total system costs,       optimizing business processes, facilitating growth and change, and       maximizing the potential of the supply chain. In today’s environment,       filled with rapid and unpredictable change, DSC helps customers achieve       their goals by being ready for anything! For more information: www.dsclogistics.com .
About B&G Foods, Inc.
B&G Foods and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute a       diversified portfolio of high-quality, branded shelf-stable foods across       the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Based in Parsippany,       New Jersey, B&G Foods’ products are marketed under many recognized       brands, including Ac’cent, B&G, B&M, Baker’s       Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary’s, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril’s, Grandma’s       Molasses, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, MacDonald’s, Maple Grove Farms, Molly McButter, Mrs.       Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old       London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate’s Booty, Polaner, Red Devil, Regina, Rickland Orchards, Sa-són, Sclafani, Smart Puffs, Spring Tree, Sugar Twin, Trappey’s, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid and Wright’s. B&G Foods also sells and distributes Static       Guard, a household product brand.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not statements of       historical or current fact constitute “forward-looking statements.” The       forward-looking statements contained in this press release include       without limitation statements related to B&G Foods’ expectations       regarding the timing of the transition of logistics services at the       three distribution centers from B&G Foods to DSC, cost benefits and the       timing thereof, improved customer service, and the ability of such       warehousing and distribution services to support B&G Foods’ acquisition       strategy and expected future growth. Such forward-looking statements       involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other unknown factors       that could cause the actual results of B&G Foods to be materially       different from the historical results or from any future results       expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to       statements that explicitly describe such risks and uncertainties readers       are urged to consider statements labeled with the terms “believes,”       “belief,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” to       be uncertain and forward-looking. The forward-looking statements       contained herein are also subject generally to other risks and       uncertainties that are described from time to time in B&G Foods’ filings       with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including under Item 1A,       “Risk Factors” in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K       and in its subsequent reports, if any, on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors       are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking       statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. B&G Foods       undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any       forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information,       future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150529006047/en/
Consumer Discretionary
