B&G Foods to Acquire Iconic Green Giant® Brand
Acquisition to Mark the Company’s Entry into the Frozen Food Category
Expected to be Significantly Accretive to Earnings per Share and Free Cash Flow
Company to Host Conference Call Today to Discuss Acquisition
B&G Foods, Inc. September 3, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
B&G Foods, Inc. ( BGS ) announced today that it has entered into an       agreement to acquire the iconic Green Giant® and Le Sueur® brands, leaders in frozen and       canned vegetables, from General Mills, Inc. for approximately $765       million in cash, subject to an inventory adjustment at closing.       B&G Foods expects the acquisition to close during the fourth quarter of       2015, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of       regulatory approvals.
“We are thrilled to welcome Green Giant and Le Sueur to       the B&G Foods family of brands. For over 100 years, Green Giant and Le Sueur have been providing consumers with great tasting,       nutritious vegetables picked at the peak of perfection®.       We look forward to building on that rich history by offering new and       innovative products that will respond to the needs of today’s health       conscious consumer,” stated Robert C. Cantwell, President and Chief       Executive Officer of B&G Foods.
Mr. Cantwell continued, “Consistent with our acquisition strategy, we       expect the acquisition to be immediately accretive to our earnings per       share and free cash flow. In addition, the acquisition marks our entry       into the frozen food category, which we believe will open many future       growth opportunities.”
B&G Foods projects that following a six to twelve month transition       period, the Green Giant and Le Sueur brands will generate       on an annualized basis net sales of approximately $550 million, adjusted       EBITDA of approximately $95 million to $100 million and earnings per       share of $0.60. Because the acquisition will be structured as an asset       purchase, B&G Foods expects to realize approximately $137 million in tax       benefits on a net present value basis.
The Green Giant and Le Sueur brands trace their roots to       Le Sueur, Minnesota in 1903, and the Minnesota Valley Canning Company.       For more than 100 years, fresh and great-tasting Green Giant and Le Sueur vegetables have been grown and picked at the peak       of perfection in the Valley of the Jolly Green Giant. Green       Giant has been implementing sustainability into the business since       1929 when it introduced vacuum-pack technology, and Green Giant has plans to continue to become “greener” in the future.
B&G Foods intends to fund the acquisition and related fees and expenses       with additional revolving loans and new incremental terms loans under       its existing credit facility. B&G Foods has received financing       commitments from Barclays Bank PLC, BofA Merrill Lynch and RBC Capital       Markets. Barclays and RBC Capital Markets acted as financial advisors to       B&G Foods.
Conference Call
B&G Foods will host a conference call to discuss the acquisition at 9:00       a.m. ET on Thursday, September 3, 2015. The call will be webcast live       from B&G Foods’ website at www.bgfoods.com under “Investor Relations—Company Overview.” The call can also be       accessed live over the phone by dialing (888) 254-3590 for U.S. callers       or (913) 312-0711 for international callers.
A replay of the call will be available one hour after the call and can       be accessed by dialing (877) 870-5176 or (858) 384-5517 for       international callers; the password is 5971692. The replay will be       available from September 3, 2015 through September 17, 2015. Investors       may also access a web-based replay of the call at the Investor Relations       section of B&G Foods’ website, www.bgfoods.com .
About B&G Foods, Inc.
B&G Foods and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute a       diversified portfolio of high-quality, branded shelf-stable foods across       the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Based in Parsippany,       New Jersey, B&G Foods’ products are marketed under many recognized       brands, including Ac’cent, B&G, B&M, Baker’s       Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary’s, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril’s, Grandma’s       Molasses, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, MacDonald’s, Mama Mary’s, Maple Grove Farms, Molly       McButter, Mrs. Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate’s Booty, Polaner, Red Devil, Regina, Rickland       Orchards, Sa-són, Sclafani, Smart Puffs, Spring       Tree, Sugar Twin, Trappey’s, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid and Wright’s. B&G Foods also sells and       distributes Static Guard, a household product brand.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not statements of       historical or current fact constitute “forward-looking statements.” The       forward-looking statements contained in this press release include,       without limitation, statements related to the planned acquisition of the Green       Giant and Le Sueur brands and the timing and financing       thereof; the expected impact of the planned acquisition, including       without limitation, the expected impact on B&G Foods’ earnings per       share, net sales, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, and the expected       tax benefits of the acquisition; and B&G Foods’ plans to introduce new       and innovative products that meet the needs of consumers. Such       forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,       uncertainties and other unknown factors that could cause the actual       results of B&G Foods to be materially different from the historical       results or from any future results expressed or implied by such       forward-looking statements. In addition to statements that explicitly       describe such risks and uncertainties readers are urged to consider       statements labeled with the terms “believes,” “belief,” “expects,”       “projects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” to be uncertain and       forward-looking. Factors that may affect actual results include, without       limitation: whether and when the required regulatory approvals will be       obtained, whether and when the other closing conditions will be       satisfied and whether and when the transaction and related financing       will close, whether and when the Company will be able to realize the       expected financial results and accretive effect of the transaction, and       how customers, competitors, suppliers and employees will react to the       acquisition. The forward-looking statements contained herein are       also subject generally to other risks and uncertainties that are       described from time to time in B&G Foods’ filings with the Securities       and Exchange Commission, including under Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in the       Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2014 filed on March 4,       2015 and in its subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Investors       are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking       statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. B&G Foods       undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any       forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information,       future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150903005706/en/
Consumer Discretionary
