Compare Brokers
Pirate's Booty® Gets on Board with International Talk Like a Pirate Day
The Family-Friendly Brand Wants Kids to Let Their Imaginations Set Sail for a Super Day of Pirate-y Playtime
Pirate Brands September 17, 2015 8:05 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
PARSIPPANY, N.J., Sept. 17, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Pirate Brands is pleased to remind fans that on International Talk Like a Pirate Day, or—as parents may know it—September 19, kids can celebrate by embracing all things pirate. In honor of all the swashbuckling joy to be had, Pirate's Booty® is partnering with Billy Bones, a.k.a. David Engel, founder of Pirate School!, a popular kids' show nationwide, to provide fun activities for kids and parents alike to enjoy this Talk Like a Pirate Day.
View photo
.
From greeting everyone they see with "Ahoy, matey!" to dressing in costume to crunching on a bag of Pirate's Booty Aged White Cheddar packed in their lunch, Talk Like a Pirate Day provides kids with the opportunity to stretch their imaginations and enjoy the puffed rice and corn snack, which is made with real aged white cheddar and no artificial colors, flavors or preservatives, making it a great option for little buccaneers. 
"In the 18 years I've been doing Pirate School!, it's been very clear that kids just can't get enough of the seafaring buccaneers, and Pirate's Booty  is the ideal snack option to keep little pirates feeling energized and playful," said Engel. "As I've emphasized positive messages of self-esteem boosting and social skill building that can be promoted through a pirate persona—I know that Talk Like a Pirate Day is the perfect time to encourage youngsters to act like good pirates and snack accordingly, too."
"Talk Like a Pirate Day is our favorite holiday at Pirate Brands," said Michael Sands, Executive Vice President of Snacks at Pirate Brands. "The pirate craze is going strong—and we recognize that it's really great for kids to be able to connect with that sense of adventure and fun that we embrace with the Pirate's Booty brand. Kids do it naturally, of course, but we are always happy to help them celebrate the day with fun games and great-tasting, better-for-you snacks."
Pirate's Booty  has created a website for the day to help parents and kids celebrate together, complete with downloadable games, a glossary of pirate terms and kid-friendly recipes. Visit http://www.piratebrands.com/talklikeapirate to engage with Pirate Brands and celebrate like a professional pirate.
For more information about Pirate's Booty and our store locator, please visit www.piratebrands.com .
Pirate Brands
Pirate Brands has been creating deliciously baked snack treasures since 1987. Pirate Brands was founded on the belief that you shouldn't have to "snackrifice" taste and fun for products made with goodness.  Pirate Brands' snacks, which include Pirate's Booty, Smart Puffs and Original Tings, are free from fryers and ingredients you can't pronounce, Arrrrrr. For more information, please visit www.piratebrands.com .
About B&G Foods
B&G Foods, Inc. ( BGS ) and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute a diversified portfolio of high-quality, branded shelf-stable foods across the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Based in Parsippany, New Jersey, B&G Foods' products are marketed under many recognized brands, including Ac'cent, B&G, B&M, Baker's Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary's, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril's, Grandma's Molasses, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, MacDonald's, Maple Grove Farms, Molly McButter, Mrs. Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate's Booty, Polaner, Red Devil, Regina, Rickland Orchards, Sa?son, Sclafani, Smart Puffs, Spring Tree, Sugar Twin, Trappey's, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid and Wright's. B&G Foods also sells and distributes Static Guard, a household product brand. For more information, please visit www.bgfoods.com .
About David Engel
David Engel is a veteran family entertainer based in New York, currently celebrating 25 years of entertaining and educating children across America, Europe, the Caribbean and Asia. Engel performs 250 shows annually with his stable of off-beat characters at theaters, festivals, libraries, schools, birthdays and corporate events nationwide. Pirate School!, a solo comedy show created and performed by Engel, also known as "Billy Bones" gives kids a chance to live out their dreams of high-seas adventure. Engel has partnered with Pirate's Booty® this year on Talk Like a Pirate Day. For more information please visit http://www.mypirateschool.com/ .
Contacts:
