Aeolus Receives Notice of Allowance From Israeli Patent Office for Use of AEOL 10150 and Other Aeolus Compounds to Treat Injury From Exposure to Alkylating Agents Such as Sulfur Mustard Gas
Aeolus Pharmaceuticals March 31, 2015 8:00 AM
?
Content preferences
Done
MISSION VIEJO, CA--(Marketwired - March 31, 2015) - Aeolus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( AOLS ), a biotechnology company developing compounds to protect against radiological and chemical threats with significant funding from the US Government, announced today that it has received a Notice of Allowance from the Israeli Patent Office for application number 209435, "Methods for Treating Injury Associated with Exposure to an Alkylating Species." The patent covers Aeolus' lead compound, AEOL 10150 as well as other metalloporphyrins under development by the Company. Alkylating agents include chemical gas agents such as sulfur mustard gas.
AEOL 10150 is being developed as a medical countermeasure for exposure to sulfur mustard gas and other chemical vesicants with funding from the National Institutes of Health's Countermeasures Against Chemical Threats (NIH CounterACT) consortium. In multiple studies, AEOL 10150 has demonstrated a significant survival advantage in animals exposed to sulfur mustard gas.
About AEOL 10150
AEOL 10150 is a broad-spectrum catalytic antioxidant specifically designed to neutralize reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. The neutralization of these species reduces oxidative stress, inflammation and subsequent tissue damage resulting from radiation exposure. The Company believes that AEOL 10150 could have a profound beneficial impact on people who are exposed to high doses of radiation.
AEOL 10150 has already performed well in animal safety studies, was well tolerated in two human clinical trials and has demonstrated statistically significant survival efficacy in multiple Lung Acute Radiation Syndrome (Lung-ARS) studies in animals. Aeolus has received "Orphan Drug" designation for the use of AEOL 10150 in treating lung ARS and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
About Aeolus Pharmaceuticals
Aeolus Pharmaceuticals is developing a new class of broad-spectrum, catalytic-antioxidant compounds that protect healthy tissue from the damaging effects of radiation. Its first compound, AEOL 10150, is being developed, with funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, as a medical countermeasure against chemical and radiological weapons. Its initial target indications are as a protective agent against the effects of acute radiation syndrome and delayed effects of acute radiation exposure. Aeolus' strategy is to leverage the substantial investment in toxicology, manufacturing and preclinical and clinical studies of AEOL 10150 made by U.S. government agencies, including the contract with BARDA valued, with options, at up to $118.4 million, to efficiently develop the compound for use in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and oncology. For more information, please visit Aeolus's corporate website at www.aolsrx.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements in this press release that are not purely statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Such statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to Aeolus' product candidates, as well as its proprietary technologies and research programs, and the Company's initiation or potential initiation of a phase 1 study in oncology patients. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Aeolus' actual results to be materially different from historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause results to differ include risks associated with uncertainties of progress and timing of clinical trials, scientific research and product development activities; difficulties or delays in development, testing and obtaining regulatory approval; the need to obtain funding for pre-clinical and clinical trials and operations; the scope and validity of intellectual property protection for Aeolus' product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses; competition from other biopharmaceutical companies; and whether BARDA exercises one or more additional options under the its contract with Aeolus. Certain of these factors and others are more fully described in Aeolus' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Aeolus' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2014. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Health Care Industry
