Voyager Sopris Learning Releases New TransMath Third Edition
Cambium Learning Group, Inc. August 19, 2015 6:00 AM
Content preferences
Done
DALLAS, Aug.  19, 2015  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Voyager Sopris Learning™, provider of evidence-based preK–12 instructional solutions and professional services, is pleased to announce the release of TransMath® Third Edition for grades 5­­­-10. Available for immediate implementation, authors John Woodward and Mary Stroh revised TransMath to reflect more rigorous math standards and a more direct progression to algebra readiness.
TransMath is a comprehensive math intervention curriculum that targets middle and high school students who lack the foundational skills necessary for entry into algebra and are, typically, two or more years below grade-level.
Third Edition includes:
New models to support deep understanding of math topics
Stronger transition to algebra readiness with earlier introduction of algebra and more advanced concepts
New online Teacher Center and Student Center to provide access to all materials in one place
New digital manipulatives for teachers and students
Key recommendations for improving and deepening problem-solving skills
New use of Quantile-based assessments for both entry into curriculum and grade-level-specific progress assessments
“Algebra is a critical gatekeeper to more advanced math in high school and beyond—the Third Edition of TransMath provides a path to accelerate student growth toward algebra readiness,” said Jeffrey A. Elliott, president of Voyager Sopris Learning. “Ultimately, the goal is to support students in achieving increased academic outcomes and a more positive attitude toward math.”
In addition to the enhancements, TransMath Third Edition has preserved proven-effective elements of the second edition, including dual-topic approach, fewer topics in greater depth, acceleration toward grade-level mathematics, and strong teacher support with lesson-by-lesson models.
To learn more about TransMath Third Edition, visit www.voyagersopris.com/curriculum/subject/math/transmath .
About Voyager Sopris Learning
Voyager Sopris Learning™ is committed to partnering with school districts to overcome obstacles that students, teachers, and school leaders face every day. The suite of instructional and service solutions we provide is not only research based, but also evidence based—proven to increase student achievement and educator effectiveness. Our solutions have been fully tested in the classroom, ensuring that they are easy to implement and teacher friendly. They are innovative, both in overall instructional approach and in the strategic use of technology in blended and 100 percent online solutions, and they are supported by an unparalleled commitment to build local capacity for sustained success. With a comprehensive suite of instructional resources, we provide assessments, professional development and school-improvement services, literacy and math instructional tools—both comprehensive intervention and supplemental—and resources to build a positive school climate. Voyager Sopris Learning is a business unit of Cambium Learning® Group, Inc. ( ABCD ), based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, visit www.voyagersopris.com .
Contact:
