.
View photo
Apple today introduced an epic 12.9-inch iPad Pro with Retina display, and Apple Pencil, with breakthrough …
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today introduced the all-new iPad Pro™, featuring a stunning       12.9-inch Retina® display with 5.6 million pixels, the most ever in an       iOS device, and groundbreaking performance with the new 64-bit A9X chip,       rivaling most portable PCs. The new larger iPad Pro is thin and light       and provides all-day battery life. There are more than 850,000 apps in       the App Store? designed specifically for iPad®, and the new iPad Pro       will enable a new generation of advanced apps for everything from       productivity, design, illustration, engineering and medical, to       education, gaming and entertainment.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006584/en/
Apple today also introduced Apple Pencil™ for iPad Pro, a precision       input device available for purchase separately, which makes drawing and       sketching feel remarkably fluid and natural. The touch subsystem of the       Multi-Touch™ display in iPad Pro has been redesigned to work with Apple       Pencil to dramatically reduce latency and deliver incredible accuracy       for activities like fine art illustration and detailed 3D       design. Advanced sensors in Apple Pencil measure both pressure and tilt       for a fast and fluid drawing experience, while a built-in Lightning®       connector makes for quick and easy pairing and charging. Apple Pencil       also works with popular apps like Mail, Notes, Procreate and Office 365       for iPad, offering new levels of creativity and productivity.
Apple’s new Smart Keyboard further extends the utility of iPad Pro,       offering a full-sized keyboard in a thin, durable design so you can take       it anywhere. The Smart Keyboard, available for purchase       separately, attaches to iPad Pro’s innovative Smart Connector port,       eliminating the need for a separate battery, on/off switch or Bluetooth       pairing. The Smart Keyboard is covered in custom woven fabric and       features keys that provide the accuracy, stability and satisfying key       feel of standard keyboards, but is also easily foldable and can       transform into a Smart Cover®. The Smart Keyboard       also works seamlessly with new QuickType® features in iOS 9 to make       typing even faster and easier.
“iPad Pro is the most advanced and powerful iPad we have ever made. Its       beautiful and large 12.9-inch Retina display has 5.6 million pixels and       provides an immersive experience for content and apps. The iPad Pro is       far and away the fastest iOS device we have ever made — its A9X chip       beats most portable PCs in both CPU and graphics tasks, but is thin and       light enough to hold all day,” said Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior vice       president of Worldwide Marketing. “The innovative Apple Pencil and new       Smart Keyboard enable users to customize their iPad Pro experience to       the particular apps they use and the work they do, making iPad Pro ideal       for everything from professional productivity to advanced 3D design.”
Innovative Design
iPad Pro’s 12.9-inch Retina display, with 5.6 million pixels and refined       Multi-Touch technology, is the most advanced and highest resolution       display ever in an iOS device. It delivers greater contrast, more       uniform brightness and improved energy efficiency through photo       alignment technology, oxide TFT and variable refresh rate. A new       four-speaker audio design provides powerful, clear and rich stereo       sound, and a refined unibody enclosure of anodized aluminum gives iPad       Pro a sturdy feel with a thin and light design that is easy to hold.
Powerful Technology
iPad Pro delivers groundbreaking performance and energy efficiency, so       you can tackle the most demanding tasks. Apple’s powerful new 64-bit A9X       chip, with third-generation 64-bit architecture, provides desktop-class       CPU performance and console-class graphics. Ultra-fast wireless       connectivity keeps you connected wherever you go with 802.11ac Wi-Fi       with MIMO technology, support for a wide range of LTE bands and other       fast cellular network technologies (DC-HSDPA, HSPA+).* All-day 10-hour       battery life** delivers the efficiency that users have come to expect       from iPad.
iOS 9
iOS 9, the world's most advanced mobile operating system, brings more       intelligence to iPad with proactive assistance, powerful search and       improved Siri® features, all while protecting users' privacy. New       multitasking features designed specifically for iPad allow users to do       more at the same time, while built-in apps become more powerful with a       redesigned Notes app, detailed transit information in Maps and an       all-new News app*** for the best news reading experience on any mobile       device. The foundation of iOS is even stronger with software updates       that require less space to install and advanced security features to       further protect your device.
Pricing & Availability
iPad Pro starts at $799 (US) for the 32GB with Wi-Fi model and $1079       (US) for the Wi-Fi + Cellular 128GB model, comes in three gorgeous       metallic finishes including silver, gold and space gray and will be       available starting in November from  Apple.com ,       Apple’s retail stores, through select carriers and Apple Authorized       Resellers. For more information, please visit www.apple.com/ipad .
Apple Pencil will be available for $99 (US) and Smart Keyboard will be       available in charcoal gray for $169 (US). New polyurethane iPad Pro       Smart Covers will be available for $59 (US) in charcoal gray and white.       New iPad Pro Silicone Cases will be available for $79 (US) in charcoal       gray and white. iPad Pro accessories will be available starting in       November.
*Data plan required. LTE is available in select markets and through       select carriers. Speeds vary based on site conditions. For details on       LTE support, contact your carrier and see  www.apple.com/ipad/LTE
**Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors.       Actual results may vary.
***Transit information in Maps will be available in select major cities       including Baltimore, Berlin, Chicago, London, Mexico City, New York       City, Philadelphia, the San Francisco Bay Area, Toronto and Washington       D.C., as well as over 300 cities in China, including Beijing, Chengdu       and Shanghai. News app availability varies by country.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
Additional Content:
