Apple and Hermès Unveil the Apple Watch Hermès Collection
Apple Inc. September 9, 2015 3:07 PM
?
.
View photo
Apple today introduced Apple Watch Hermès, a new collection of Apple Watch in stainless steel with finely …
SAN FRANCISCO & PARIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® and Hermès today introduced Apple Watch® Hermès, a new collection       of Apple Watch in stainless steel with finely crafted leather bands in       distinctive styles from Hermès, including the Single Tour, Double Tour       and Cuff, while respecting the design and functionality of the Apple       Watch. The collaboration merges Apple’s unparalleled product innovation       with the heritage, iconography and craftsmanship of Hermès, creating a       unique expression of Apple Watch.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006578/en/
“Apple and Hermès make very different products, but they reflect the       deep appreciation of quality design,” said Jonathan Ive, Apple’s chief       design officer. “Both companies are motivated by a sincere pursuit of       excellence and the desire to create something that is not compromised.       Apple Watch Hermès is a true testament to that belief.”
“At Hermès, we strive to provide our clients with elegant, creative and       functional objects for their everyday lives,” said Pierre-Alexis Dumas,       Hermès’ executive vice president in charge of artistic direction. “What       more contemporary and relevant expression of this principle could there       be than this collaboration with Apple. We are strongly united by the       same deeply held ideas and principles. I see it as the establishment of       an alliance in excellence; like horse and carriage, a perfect team.”
The Single Tour with the 38 mm stainless steel case comes in fauve       Barenia leather, noir box leather and capucine Swift leather, while the       Single Tour with 42 mm stainless steel case comes in fauve Barenia       leather and noir box leather. The Double Tour pairs with the 38 mm       stainless steel case and is available in fauve Barenia leather and bleu       jean, capucine and etain Swift leather. The Cuff pairs with the 42 mm       stainless steel case and is available in fauve Barenia leather only.       Across the collection, each stainless steel case features an etching of       the Hermès signature and includes a customizable face with three       exclusive dial designs inspired by Clipper, Cape Cod and Espace Hermès       watches.
Pricing & Availability
Apple Watch Hermès starts at $1,100 (US) for the 38 mm stainless steel       case with the Single Tour, $1,150 (US) for the 42 mm stainless steel       case with the Single Tour, $1,250 (US) for the 38 mm stainless steel       case with the Double Tour and $1,500 (US) for the 42 mm stainless steel       case with the Cuff. The collection will be available at select Apple       retail stores, select Hermès stores, specialty stores and department       stores beginning October 5 in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany,       Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Korea, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland, the UK       and the US. For more information on Apple Watch Hermès please visit www.apple.com/apple-watch-hermes or www.hermes.com/applewatchhermes .
The constant requirement for the finest quality has always been the       quest of Hermès. Since its establishment in 1837, six generations of       enterprising and passionate artisans have contributed to spreading its       values: a savoir-faire built on the application of highly precise and       skilled crafts to the finest materials, the love for beautiful objects       created to last over time and the spirit of constant innovation. A       family owned company, Hermès is managed by Chief Executive Officer, Axel       Dumas, a member of the sixth generation of the Hermès family.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
Additional Content:
Images
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo and Apple       Watch are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be       trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006578/en/
