.
View photo
The all-new Apple TV is bringing the App Store, Siri Remote and tvOS to your living room. (Photo: Business …
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced the all-new Apple TV®, bringing a revolutionary       experience to the living room based on apps built for the television.       Apps on Apple TV let you choose what to watch and when you watch it. The       new Apple TV’s remote features Siri®, so you can search with your voice       for TV shows and movies across multiple content providers simultaneously.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006586/en/
The all-new Apple TV is built from the ground up with a new generation       of high-performance hardware and introduces an intuitive and fun user       interface using the Siri Remote™. Apple TV runs the all-new tvOS™       operating system, based on Apple’s iOS, enabling millions of iOS       developers to create innovative new apps and games specifically for       Apple TV and deliver them directly to users through the new Apple TV App       Store™.
“There has been so much innovation in entertainment and programming       through iOS apps, we want to bring that same excitement to the       television,” said Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet       Software and Services. “Apps make the TV experience even more compelling       for viewers and we think apps represent the future of TV.”
The new Siri Remote dramatically simplifies how you select, scroll and       navigate through your favorite content while bringing unique       interactivity to the new Apple TV by using a glass touch surface that       handles both small, accurate movements as well as big, sweeping ones.       Adding touch to Apple TV creates a natural, connected experience, even       if the TV screen is on the other side of the room. Developers can take       advantage of the built-in accelerometer and gyroscope, and the touch       surface on the Siri Remote to create games and other app experiences       that have never been seen on TV before.
With Siri, you can use your voice to search TV shows and movies by       title, genre, cast, crew, rating or popularity, making it easy to say       things like “Show me New Girl,” “Find the best funny movies from the       ‘80s,” “Find movies with Jason Bateman” and “Find popular TV shows for       kids.” Apple TV will search iTunes® and popular apps from Netflix, Hulu,       HBO and Showtime, displaying all the ways the resulting TV shows and       movies can be played. Siri also offers playback control and on-screen       navigation, as well as quick access to sports, stock and weather       information.*
tvOS is the new operating system for Apple TV, and the tvOS SDK provides       tools and APIs for developers to create amazing experiences for the       living room the same way they created a global app phenomenon for       iPhone® and iPad®. The new, more powerful Apple TV features the       Apple-designed A8 chip for even better performance so developers can       build engaging games and custom content apps for the TV. tvOS supports       key iOS technologies including Metal™, for detailed graphics, complex       visual effects and Game Center, to play and share games with friends.
Pricing & Availability
The new Apple TV will be available at the end of October starting at       $149 (US) for a 32GB model and $199 (US) for a 64GB model from Apple.com ,       Apple’s retail stores and select Apple Authorized Resellers. A new       Xcode® beta is available for developers today that includes the tvOS SDK       at developer.apple.com/xcode/downloads .       Developers can request an Apple TV developer kit at developer.apple.com/tvos/ .
*Siri availability and functionality varies by country. Subscription       required for some content.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
Additional Content:
Video
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Apple TV,       Siri, Siri Remote, tvOS, Apple TV App Store, iTunes, iPhone, iPad, Metal       and Xcode are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may       be trademarks of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006586/en/
