Apple Introduces iPhone 6s & iPhone 6s Plus
Next Generation of Multi-Touch Arrives in The Most Advanced iPhones Ever
Apple Inc. September 9, 2015 3:08 PM
?
.
View photo
Apple today introduced iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the most advanced iPhones ever with 3D Touch and …
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced iPhone® 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the most advanced       iPhones ever, adding a powerful new dimension to iPhone’s revolutionary       Multi-Touch™ interface. The new iPhones introduce 3D Touch, which senses       force to enable intuitive new ways to access features and interact with       content. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus feature Retina® HD displays made       from the strongest glass on any smartphone and 7000 series aluminum, the       same alloy used in the aerospace industry, in gorgeous metallic finishes       that now include rose gold.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006590/en/
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus also introduce a transformative new       approach to photography called Live Photos, bringing still images to       life by capturing a moment in motion. Live Photos, 3D Touch and other       advancements in the new iPhones are powered by the Apple-designed A9       chip, the most advanced chip ever in a smartphone, delivering faster       performance and great battery life.
“The only thing that has changed with iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus is       everything — 3D Touch lets users interact with iPhone in entirely new       and fun ways, and the innovative Live Photos brings your pictures to       life,” said Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of Worldwide       Marketing. “These are the most advanced iPhones ever, with 7000 series       aluminum, ion-strengthened glass, the new 64-bit A9 chip, 12-megapixel       iSight and 5-megapixel FaceTime HD cameras, faster Touch ID, LTE and       Wi-Fi. Customers are going to love them.”
3D Touch
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus introduce new ways to navigate and       experience iPhone by sensing pressure to enable new gestures — Peek and       Pop™ — so you can dip in and out of content without losing your place.       Press lightly to Peek at a photo, email, web page or other content, and       press a little deeper to Pop into the content itself. With Quick       Actions, 3D       Touch provides shortcuts to the things you do most, so you can send       a message or take a selfie with just a simple press from the Home screen.
Camera Innovations
The world’s most popular camera is even better in the new iPhones with       new ways to capture and relive unforgettable moments. iPhone 6s and       iPhone 6s Plus introduce Live       Photos , which go beyond snapshots to capture moments in motion. Live       Photos are beautiful 12-megapixel photos that, with just a press, reveal       the moments immediately before and after the shot was taken, so you can       enjoy a living memory rather than an instant frozen in time.
High-definition video improves with support for 4K — with a resolution of 3840 x 2160, delivering over 8 million pixels —       and the expansion of optical image stabilization to video on iPhone 6s       Plus, for taking beautiful videos in lower light. After capturing 4K       video, you can edit on your Mac®, PC, iPad® and with the latest version       of iMovie® on iPhone, you can even edit two simultaneous streams.
Additional camera advancements include:
a new state-of-the-art 12-megapixel sensor with advanced pixel         technology and Apple-designed image signal processor, for truer colors         and sharper, more detailed photos; and
a new 5-megapixel FaceTime® HD camera and Retina Flash, which         momentarily makes the display three times brighter with True Tone®         lighting, for wonderfully bright selfies in low light.
Advanced Technology
A9, Apple’s third-generation 64-bit chip powers these innovations with       70 percent faster CPU and 90 percent faster GPU performance than the A8,       all with gains in energy efficiency for great battery life. The A9 chip       and iOS 9 are architected together for optimal performance where it       matters most, in real world usage. M9, Apple’s next-generation motion       coprocessor, is embedded into A9, allowing more features to run all the       time at lower power, including “Hey Siri,” without iPhone needing to be       plugged in.
With advanced wireless technologies including faster Wi-Fi and LTE       Advanced, iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus users can browse, download and       stream content even faster.¹ The new iPhones also support up to 23 LTE       bands — the most in any smartphone — for better worldwide roaming.
iOS 9, the world’s most advanced mobile operating system, brings more       intelligence to iPhone with proactive assistance, powerful search and       improved Siri® features, all while protecting users’ privacy. Built-in       apps become more powerful with a redesigned Notes app, detailed transit       information in Maps, and an all-new News app for the best news reading       experience on any mobile device.² The foundation of iOS is even stronger       with software updates that require less space to install and advanced       security features to further protect your devices.
Pricing & Availability
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus will be available in gold, silver, space         gray and the new rose gold metallic finishes for $0 down with 24         monthly payments starting at $27 (US) and $31 (US), respectively, from         Apple’s retail stores in the US, Apple.com ,         select carriers and Apple Authorized Resellers.³
Exclusively at Apple’s retail stores in the US, customers can choose         their carrier and get an unlocked iPhone 6s or iPhone 6s Plus with the         opportunity to get a new iPhone annually and AppleCare+ on the new         iPhone Upgrade Program with monthly payments starting at $32 (US) and         $37 (US), respectively.?
Both models will be available in Australia, Canada, China, France,         Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore, the UK         and the US beginning Friday, September 25, with pre-orders beginning         Saturday, September 12.
Apple-designed accessories including leather and silicone cases in a range of colors and         Lightning Docks in color-matched metallic finishes will also be         available.
¹ Data plan required. LTE Advanced and LTE are available in select       markets and through select carriers. Speeds vary based on site       conditions and carrier. For details on LTE support, contact your carrier       and see www.apple.com/iphone/LTE .
² Transit information in Maps will be available in select major cities       including Baltimore, Berlin, Chicago, London, Mexico City, New York       City, Philadelphia, the San Francisco Bay Area, Toronto and Washington       D.C., as well as over 300 cities in China, including Beijing, Chengdu       and Shanghai. News app availability varies by country.
³ Prices are rounded to nearest dollar and are based on 24 monthly       installment payments. Taxes and activation fees may be due at sale.       Carrier terms and eligibility may apply.
? The iPhone Upgrade Program is available to qualified customers only       with a valid US personal credit card. Requires a 24-month installment       loan with Citizens Bank, N.A. and iPhone activation with a national       carrier — AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile or Verizon. Full terms apply.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
Additional Content:
