Apple Introduces watchOS 2 with Native Apps and New Gold & Rose Gold Aluminum Apple Watch Sport Models
Native Apps, New Watch Faces, Time Travel & More Arrive with watchOS 2 September 16
Apple Inc. September 9, 2015 3:07 PM
?
.
View photo
Apple today introduced new gold & rose gold aluminum Apple Watch Sport models and watchOS 2 with native …
SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today introduced beautiful new Apple Watch® cases and bands,       available starting today, including new gold and rose gold aluminum       Apple Watch Sport models. Since its release, Apple Watch has helped       users receive and respond to notifications, interact by simply speaking       to Siri®, conveniently use Apple Pay™ and track their health and fitness       activity. watchOS™ 2 arrives as a free update on September 16 and       further enhances this groundbreaking experience with new features and       native third-party apps.
This Smart News Release features multimedia. View the full release here: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006582/en/
watchOS 2 makes apps faster and more fluid by running natively on Apple       Watch, and introduces new watch faces, the ability for third-party apps       to display information on the watch face as complications, and an       innovative way to see future events, past headlines and more with Time       Travel. watchOS 2 also includes new communication features such as the       ability to respond quickly to Mail with dictation, Smart Replies or       emoji, and Digital Touch enables more creativity with multiple sketch       colors.
“Our customers love Apple Watch and tell us its incredible health and       fitness features are having a huge impact on their lives,” said Jeff       Williams, Apple’s senior vice president of Operations. “We’re excited to       expand Apple Watch’s functionality with watchOS 2 and offer even more       personal choice with beautiful new styles and colors.”
Expanded Assortment of Apple Watch Styles
Apple Watch collections are expanding with new case colors and fresh new       bands. With new standalone Sport Bands that range from rich vibrant       colors to more neutral tones, Apple Watch is now more customizable than       ever:
Apple Watch Sport’s lightweight anodized aluminum case now comes in         two new beautiful colors, gold aluminum and rose gold aluminum paired         with high-performance fluoroelastomer Sport Bands in lavender, antique         white, stone and midnight blue.
Apple Watch Sport silver aluminum is now available with new orange or         blue Sport Bands.
The stainless steel Apple Watch collection offers a variety of new         bands including a two-toned Classic Buckle in black or saddle brown.
The Apple Watch space black stainless steel case is now available with         a black Sport Band.
Apple Watch Edition now includes an 18-karat rose gold case with a         midnight blue Classic Buckle.
Apple Watch joins Apple’s commitment to (PRODUCT)RED with a stainless       steel case and a (PRODUCT)RED Sport Band with a portion of the proceeds       going to the Global Fund to fight AIDS.
Apple Watch bands for the entire Apple Watch Sport and Apple Watch       collections are available to purchase separately, along with four new       Sport Band colors in fog, turquoise, vintage rose and walnut.
View the full line-up in the Apple       Watch gallery .
watchOS 2 & Native Third-Party Apps
watchOS 2, the first major software update for Apple Watch, available       September 16, provides even more ways to customize with new watch faces       including Photo, Photo Album and Time-Lapse. Watch faces are even richer       with third-party app complications that let users see news headlines,       upcoming flight times and more. Time Travel allows users to conveniently       explore events in the future by scrolling the Digital Crown™.
Apple Watch app developers can now take advantage of key hardware and       APIs to create fast, fluid, native third-party apps such as playing back       video in the CNN app, using the speaker and microphone in iTranslate or       measuring heart rate while cycling with Strava.
Pricing & Availability
Shipping today, Apple Watch is available on Apple.com and will be available in Apple’s retail stores and select Apple       Authorized Resellers, specialty stores and department stores over the       next few days. For local availability, visit locate.apple.com .
Apple Watch is available in two different sizes, 38 mm and 42 mm, in       three collections, Apple Watch Sport, starting at $349 (US); Apple       Watch, starting at $549 (US); and Apple Watch Edition, crafted from       custom rose or yellow 18-karat gold alloys, with prices starting at       $10,000 (US).
Apple Watch requires iPhone® 5, iPhone 5c, iPhone 5s, iPhone 6 or iPhone       6 Plus, iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus running iOS 8.2 or later.* watchOS       2 and iOS 9 will be available beginning Wednesday, September 16 as a       free software update.
*To use all watchOS 2 features, download iOS 9.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
Additional Content:
Video
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Apple       Watch, Siri, Apple Pay, watchOS, Digital Crown and iPhone are trademarks       of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks of their       respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150909006582/en/
