Apple Announces Record iPhone 6s & iPhone 6s Plus Sales
iPhone Available in 40 Additional Countries Beginning Friday, October 9
Apple September 28, 2015 8:30 AM
?
Done
CUPERTINO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Apple® today announced it has sold more than 13 million new iPhone® 6s       and iPhone 6s Plus models, a new record, just three days after launch.       iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus will be available in more than 40       additional countries beginning October 9 including Italy, Mexico,       Russia, Spain and Taiwan. The new iPhones will be available in over 130       countries by the end of the year.
“Sales for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus have been phenomenal, blowing       past any previous first weekend sales results in Apple’s history,” said       Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “Customers’ feedback is incredible and they are       loving 3D Touch and Live Photos, and we can’t wait to bring iPhone 6s       and iPhone 6s Plus to customers in even more countries on October 9.”
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring a powerful new dimension to iPhone’s       revolutionary Multi-Touch™ interface with 3D Touch, which senses how       deeply you press the display, letting you do essential things more       quickly and simply. The new iPhones introduce Live Photos, which bring       still images to life, transforming instants frozen in time into       unforgettable living memories. Live Photos, 3D Touch, 12-megapixel       iSight® camera, 5-megapixel FaceTime® HD camera with Retina® Flash and       more are powered by the Apple-designed A9 chip, the most advanced chip       ever in a smartphone, delivering faster performance and great battery       life. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are designed with the strongest glass       on any smartphone and 7000 series aluminum, the same alloy used in the       aerospace industry, in gorgeous metallic finishes that now include rose       gold.
iOS 9, the world’s most advanced mobile operating system, brings more       intelligence to iPhone with proactive assistance, powerful search and       improved Siri features, all while protecting users’ privacy. Built-in       apps become more powerful with a redesigned Notes app, detailed transit       information in Maps*, and an all-new News app for the best news reading       experience on any mobile device. The foundation of iOS is even stronger       with software updates that require less space to install and advanced       security features to further protect your devices.
Customers are encouraged to check the Apple Store® app or Apple.com to receive updates on availability and estimated delivery dates. Every       customer who buys an iPhone 6s or iPhone 6s Plus at an Apple Retail       Store will be offered free Personal Setup service, helping them       customize their iPhone by setting up email, showing them new apps from       the App Store? and more, so they’ll be up and running with their new       iPhone before they leave the store. Customers can also learn more about       iOS 9 and their new device through free workshops at all Apple retail       stores worldwide. In the US, the new iPhones are also available through       AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless and additional carriers, and       select Apple Authorized Resellers including Best Buy, Target and Walmart.
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus will roll out worldwide to more than 40       additional countries and territories beginning October 9 including       Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic,       Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Greenland, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,       Isle of Man, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,       Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,       Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and       Taiwan. On October 10, countries include Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar,       Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates. iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus will       be available in India, Malaysia and Turkey on Friday, October 16 and in       over 130 countries by the end of the year.
Sales completed by Saturday, September 26 will be included in Apple’s       2015 fourth fiscal quarter results, and sales completed on Sunday,       September 27 will be included in Apple’s 2016 first fiscal quarter       results.
Pricing & Availability
iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus are available in gold, silver, space gray         and the new rose gold metallic finishes for $0 down with 24 monthly         payments starting at $27 (US) and $31 (US), respectively, from Apple’s         retail stores in the US, Apple.com ,         select carriers and Apple Authorized Resellers.**
Apple-designed accessories including leather and silicone cases in a         range of colors and Lightning Docks in color-matched metallic finishes         are also available.
Exclusively at Apple’s retail stores in the US, customers can choose         their carrier and get an unlocked iPhone 6s or iPhone 6s Plus with the         opportunity to get a new iPhone annually and AppleCare+ on the new         iPhone Upgrade Program. Monthly payments start at $32 (US) and $37         (US), respectively. For more information on the iPhone Upgrade Program         visit www.apple.com/shop/iphone/iphone-upgrade-program or a US Apple Retail Store.***
Customers can visit Apple.com to reserve their iPhone for pick-up at their local Apple Store, based         on availability. Most Apple stores also have iPhone available for         walk-in customers each day.
*Transit information in Maps will be available in select major cities       including Baltimore, Berlin, Chicago, London, Mexico City, New York       City, Philadelphia, the San Francisco Bay Area, Toronto and Washington       D.C., as well as over 300 cities in China, including Beijing, Chengdu       and Shanghai. News app availability varies by country.
**Prices are rounded to nearest dollar and are based on 24 monthly       installment payments. Taxes and activation fees may be due at sale.       Carrier terms and eligibility may apply.
***The iPhone Upgrade Program is available to qualified customers only       with a valid US personal credit card. Requires a 24-month installment       loan with Citizens Bank, N.A. and iPhone activation with a national       carrier — AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile or Verizon. Full terms apply.
Apple revolutionized personal technology with the introduction of the       Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with       iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms       — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple       devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App       Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are       dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world       better than we found it.
NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website ( www.apple.com/pr ),       or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042.
© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, iPhone,       MultiTouch, iSight, FaceTime, Retina, Apple Store and App Store are       trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks       of their respective owners.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150928005459/en/
Apple Store
