B&G Foods Acquires Mama Mary’s Pizza Crusts
B&G Foods, Inc. July 13, 2015 9:00 AM
?
Done
PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
B&G Foods, Inc. ( BGS ) announced today that it has acquired Spartan       Foods of America, Inc. dba Mama Mary’s and related entities from       Linsalata Capital Partners and certain other sellers for approximately       $50.0 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
“We are delighted to welcome Spartan Foods of America and the Mama       Mary’s brand to the B&G Foods family,” stated Robert C. Cantwell,       President and Chief Executive Officer of B&G Foods. “Under the       leadership of Linsalata Capital, the company has built a solid and       profitable business.”
Mr. Cantwell continued, “The Mama Mary’s brand complements very       well our existing portfolio of brands, including our Don Pepino pizza sauce. And, consistent with our acquisition strategy, we expect       the acquisition to be immediately accretive to our earnings per share       and free cash flow.”
B&G Foods projects that after being fully integrated into B&G Foods, the Mama       Mary’s brand will generate on an annualized basis net sales of       approximately $35.0 million and adjusted EBITDA of approximately $7.5       million.
Mama Mary’s is the #1 brand of shelf-stable pizza crust, by unit       volume, in the retail channel.
B&G Foods funded the acquisition and will pay related fees and expenses       with cash on hand.
Duff & Phelps served as the investment banking advisor to Linsalata       Capital Partners.
About Linsalata Capital Partners
Located in the Cleveland suburb of Mayfield Heights, Ohio, Linsalata       Capital Partners was founded in 1984 and has combined its strong       financial capabilities with extensive operational experience to       accelerate the growth of middle-market companies. In its more than 31       years of investing, the firm has completed 106 buy-side transactions       totaling more than $3 billion. Linsalata Capital Partners is currently       investing from its seventh fund, Linsalata Capital Partners Fund VI,       L.P., with $427 million in committed equity capital.
About B&G Foods, Inc.
B&G Foods and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute a       diversified portfolio of high-quality, branded shelf-stable foods across       the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Based in Parsippany,       New Jersey, B&G Foods’ products are marketed under many recognized       brands, including Ac’cent, B&G, B&M, Baker’s       Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary’s, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril’s, Grandma’s       Molasses, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, MacDonald’s, Maple Grove Farms, Molly McButter, Mrs.       Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old       London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate’s Booty, Polaner, Red Devil, Regina, Rickland Orchards, Sa-són, Sclafani, Smart Puffs, Spring Tree, Sugar Twin, Trappey’s, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid, Wright’s and now, Mama Mary’s. B&G Foods also sells and       distributes Static Guard, a household product brand.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that are not statements of       historical or current fact constitute “forward-looking statements.” The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include       without limitation statements related to the expected impact of the       Spartan Foods of America acquisition, including without limitation, the       expected impact on B&G Foods’ net sales, earnings per share, free cash       flow and adjusted EBITDA. Such forward-looking statements involve       known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other unknown factors that       could cause the actual results of B&G Foods to be materially different       from the historical results or from any future results expressed or       implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to statements       that explicitly describe such risks and uncertainties readers are urged       to consider statements labeled with the terms “believes,” “belief,”       “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “anticipates” or “plans” to be       uncertain and forward-looking. The forward-looking statements contained       herein are also subject generally to other risks and uncertainties that       are described from time to time in B&G Foods’ filings with the       Securities and Exchange Commission, including under Item 1A, “Risk       Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2014       filed on March 4, 2015. B&G Foods undertakes no obligation to       publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a       result of new information, future events or otherwise.
View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150713005634/en/
Consumer Discretionary
