Content preferences
Done
PARSIPPANY, N.J., June 4, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- B&G Foods is hitting the road, bringing the big city taste of its iconic New York Style® snacks to the south for the International Dairy-Deli-Bakery Association (IDDBA) 2015 Seminar & Expo. This June, the brand will expand its pita chip offerings with the launch of two new delicious flavors, Ancient Grains & Flaxseed and Chia Seeds & Quinoa, along with brand-new recipes for its existing flavors, including Sea Salt, Parmesan Garlic and Herb, Red Hot Chili Pepper and Garden Fresh Ranch. All New York Style Pita Chips serve up robust flavor and the crunch consumers crave for an even better, more delicious snacking experience.
The new pita chip flavors, made with hearty ingredients like whole wheat flour, amaranth, buckwheat and quinoa, have been thoughtfully crafted with the smart snacker in mind. "We wanted to create a pita chip that consumers could feel good about, without sacrificing the quality or bold taste New York Style fans love," said Michael Skalski, senior brand manager, New York Style. "With the new Ancient Grains & Flaxseed and Chia Seeds & Quinoa flavors, we're giving shoppers the trending ingredients they're looking for in a tasty snack they can enjoy any time of the day."
To complement the new flavors, the brand also made updates to its existing pita chip line, serving up "BIG Crunch, LESS Crumble™". All flavors are now developed under a new baking technology that yields a stronger, more dippable chip—which is also less likely to break in the bag— it's "The Chip Made to Dip!™". Qualitative research from B&G Foods shows that consumers enjoy a better crunch and superior texture with the new pita chip, which rivals top competitors. New York Style Pita Chips are twice baked, never fried and they're great on their own or paired with toppings, dips and spreads, providing a delectable appetizer in a New York minute. The full portfolio of tasty pita chips includes: 
New York Style Ancient Grains & Flaxseed Pita Chips — Made with a delicious blend of ancient grains including millet, amaranth, buckwheat and black sesame, plus flaxseeds and a touch of sea salt
New York Style Chia Seeds & Quinoa Pita Chips — Hearty chia seeds and quinoa with a pinch of sea salt
New York Style Sea Salt Pita Chips — Classic crunch with just a touch of sea salt
New York Style Parmesan Garlic & Herb Pita Chips — The delightful taste of parmesan cheese, garlic and herbs
New York Style Red Hot Chili Pepper Pita Chips — Made with a hint of heat from red hot chili peppers
New York Style Garden Fresh Ranch Pita Chips — With a light and refreshing taste of ranch
The new and updated New York Style Pita Chips will be on shelves starting in July and will join the entire New York Style snack portfolio at the IDDBA Seminar & Expo, booth #1738, June 7-9. The suggested retail price for New York Style Pita Chips is $3.49 per 8 oz. bag.
About New York Style
New York Style®, bagel chip originator and manufacturer of deliciously baked snacks, has been creating snack and bread alternatives for almost three decades. Today, New York Style produces deliciously baked snacks that include New York Style Bagel Crisps®, New York Style Pita Chips, New York Style Sweet Swirls and New York Style Panetini®. Products are sold primarily in the United States and Canada. For more information, including a store locater showing where you can find New York Style snacks, please visit: www.NewYorkStyle.com . 
About B&G Foods
B&G Foods, Inc. ( BGS ) and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute a diversified portfolio of high-quality, branded shelf-stable foods across the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Based in Parsippany, New Jersey, B&G Foods' products are marketed under many recognized brands, including Ac'cent, B&G, B&M, Baker's Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary's, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril's, Grandma's Molasses, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, MacDonald's, Maple Grove Farms, Molly McButter, Mrs. Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate's Booty, Polaner, Red Devil, Regina, Rickland Orchards, Sa-son, Sclafani, Smart Puffs, Spring Tree, Sugar Twin, Trappey's, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid and Wright's. B&G Foods also sells and distributes Static Guard, a household product brand. For more information, please visit www.bgfoods.com .
Contacts:
